LES MISERABLES





FANTINE 


VOL. 1 





wad 





ee ee 


Enition De Dicxe 








{ «s MISERABLES 


VICFOHOR HUGO 





Jean Valjean at Bishop Myrrel’ s Bedside 
x» 


J Me 
Volume I tae 
olujme Sy ef 
; oy , a 
Frontigpiece bi, Mea . 
Yolwae 


FANTIN: 





Se SEPT IA Oi IO RTD HH SO TTS 


Bigelow, Smith &amp; Company 
New Bark 











Edition Be Duxe 


LES MISERABLES 


BY 


VIC TORS EEUGe@ 


YQ 


Balume 1 


FAN TINE 


Bigelow, Smith &amp; Company 
Nem York 


Az) 


IBO 


Enition Be Luxe 
Limited to One Thousand Sets 


CRITICAL NOTE 


BY 
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 


We look in vain in Les Misérables for the blemishes ap- 
pearing in Ninety Three. Were, on the other hand, there 
is perhaps the nearest approach to literary restraint that 
Hugo has ever made: there is here certainly the ripest and 
most easy development of his powers. It is the moral in- 
tention of this great novel to awaken us a little, if it may 
be — for such awakenings are unpleasant —to the great 
cost of this society that we enjoy and profit by, to the 
labor and sweat of those who support the litter, civilization, 
in which we ourselves are so smoothly carried forward. Peo- 
ple are all glad to shut their eyes; and it gives them a very 
simple pleasure when they can forget that our laws commit 
a million individual injustices, to be once roughly just in 
the general; that the bread that we eat, and the quiet of 
the family, and all that embellishes hfe and makes it worth 
having, have to be purchased by death — by the deaths of 
animals, and the deaths of men wearied out with labor, and 
the deaths of those criminals called tyrants and revolution- 
aries, and the deaths of those revolutionaries called criminals. 
It is to something of all this that Victor Hugo wishes to 
open men’s eyes in Les Misérables; and this moral lesson is 
worked out in masterly coincidence with the artistic effect. 
The deadly weight of civilization to those who are below 
presses sensibly on our shoulders as we read. A sort of 
mocking indignation grows upon us as we find Society re- 
jecting, again and again, the services of the most serviceable ; 
setting Jean Valjean to pick oakum, casting Galileo into 

di 


IV CRITICAL NOTE 


prison, even crucifying Christ. There is a haunting and 
horrible sense of insecurity about the book. ‘The terror we 
thus feel is a terror for the machinery of law, that we can 
hear tearing, in the dark, good and bad between its formida- 
ble wheels with the iron stolidity of all machinery, human 
or divine. ‘This terror incarnates itself sometimes and leaps 
horribly out upon us; as when the crouching mendicant looks 
up, and Jean Valjean, in the light of the street lamp, rec- 
ognizes the face of the detective; as when the lantern of the 
patrol flashes suddenly through the darkness of the sewer; 
or as when the fugitive comes forth at last at evening, by 
the quiet riverside, and finds the police there also, waiting 
stolidly for vice and stolidly satisfied to take virtue instead. 
The whole book is full of oppression, and full of prejudice, 
which is the great cause of oppression. We have the preju- 
dices of M. Gillenormand, the prejudices of Marius, the 
prejudices in revolt that defend the barricade, and the 
throned prejudices that carry it by storm. And then we 
have the admirable but ill-written character of Javert, the 
man who had made a religion of the police, and would not 
survive the moment when he learned that there was another 
truth outside the truth of laws; a just creation over which 
the reader will do well to ponder. © 

With so gloomy a design this great work is still full of life 
and light and love. The portrait of the good Bishop is one 
of the most agreeable things in modern literature. The whole 
scene at Montfermeil is full of the charm that Hugo knows 
so well how to throw about children. Who can forget the 
passage where Cosette, sent out at night to draw water, 
stands in admiration before the illuminated booth, and the 
huckster behind “lui faisait un peu Il’effet d’étre le Pére 
éternel?*? The pathos of the forlorn sabot laid trustingly 
by the chimney in expectation of the Santa Claus that was 
not, takes us fairly by the throat; there is nothing in Shake- 
speare that touches the heart more nearly. The loves of 
Cosette and Marius are very pure and pleasant, and we 
cannot refuse our affection. to Gavroche, although we may 


CRITICAL NOTE Vv 


make a mental reservation of our profound disbelief in his 
existence. Take it for all in all, there are few books in the 
world that can be compared with it. There is as much calm 
and serenity as Hugo has ever attained to; the melodramatic 
coarsenesses that disfigured Notre Dame are no longer present.: 
There is certainly much that is painfully improbable; and 
again, the story itself is a little too well constructed ; it pro- 
duces on us the effect of a puzzle, and we grow incredulous 
as we find that every character fits again and again into the 
plot, and is, like the child’s cube, serviceable on six faces; 
things are not so well arranged in life as all that comes to. 
Some of the digressions, also, seem out of place, and do noth- 
ing but interrupt and irritate. But when all is said, ‘the 
book remains of masterly conception and of masterly devel- 
opment, full of pathos, full of truth, full of a high elo- 
quence. 


—————_ 





PREFACE 


So long as there shall exist, by virtue of law and custom, a 
social damnation artificially creating hells in the midst of 
civilization, and complicating the destiny which is divine with 
a fatality which is human; so long as the three problems of 
the age—the degradation of man through poverty, the 
ruin of woman through hunger, the crippling of children 
through ignorance — are not solved; so long as in certain 
regions social asphyxia is possible——in other words, and 
from a still wider point of view, so long as ignorance and 
wretchedness exist on the earth, books like this cannot be use- 
less. 

Victor Hueco. 

HavTEvItLe Hovse. 


vil 


CONTENTS 


Vo. I. 2 
FANTINE 
BOOK I—A JUST MAN. 
CHAPTER 
I. M. Myre. a ‘ 

II. M. Myaiet secomes Maaience nse 
III. A coop BisHop, a HARD BisHoPRIC . . 

IV. Works RESEMBLING WonDS .... . 

V. MonsEIGNEUR MAKES HIS CASSOCKS LAST TOO LONG 
VI. By wHom tHE HovusE was GUARDED . 

VII. CRraverte aonts : 
VIII. PuHitosopHy arrer Deine ae ee a 

IX. THe BRorHer DESCRIBED BY THE soe 

X. Tue BisHor FACES A STRANGE LIGHT . . . 
XI. A REstricrion . 4: Sey ae tare 

XII. MonseicNeur BiENVENU’s SOLITUDE . .. . 
SITI. WHat we BELIEVED . . . . + 6 e« e « 
XIV. Wat HE THOUGHT . . . . + « « « « 

BOOK II.— THE FALL. 
I. Tae Crose or a Day’s Marcu. . 

II. PropENcE COUNSELLED TO WIspoM . . . «© . 
III, Tse Heroism or passive OBEDIENCE : 

IV. Detraits oF CHEESE-MAKING AT PONTARLIER . . 
a ERONGUTTAITS o,f ee we ee 
Nl ORAANOVALIERON 5 = cue © 6 8 ww 6 @ 
VII. A pesperate Man’s Hearr . . . 6 © «© -« 
VIII. Tue Wave ann THE SHADOW . -« «© «© «© 
ee. INEWAIWRONGH. w 6 te lt ltl tll ll 

X. Tue MAN AROUSED . «© «© «© © © © © « 


x 


PAGE 


Il 
18 
21 
26 


= Ss 


49 
53 
56 
60 


76 
80 
85 
89 
90 
96 
103 
105 
107 


x CONTENTS 
CHAPTER PAGE 
A. WHat we DORM 6 5 See. Su oe SA ee e110 
XII. Tue Bispop ar WorK ... 3 . . «6 « « « « « LI3 
XIII... :Lirrie- Gerwais 2 % 2 ee es) eS Oe Oe ee 
BOOK IJI—IN THE YEAR 1817. 

Be Tue Yesr i8li) &lt;3e 2 een ees ee eee 
Il. A Dousre: QUARTET: = 2. 3 Eee 4S ee oe 
DLT. Fount SNp) OURS) 4) 0 ce eee a ee . 136 
IV. TuHotomyes 1s so MERRY AS TO SING A SPANISH SonNG . . . 140 
V. At Bomparpa’s . 143 
VI. Murvuat AporaTion . . . «© 6 © © «© «© © «© © « 145 

VII. Tue Wispom or THOoLoMYEFS ...... . . « « JAY 
VIII. Ture Deatw or a Horse. . ... . 2 2 2 . 152 
IX. Tue govous Enpn or Joy. .... .- 2 155 
BOOK IV.— TO CONFIDE IS SOMETIMES TO ABAN- 
DON. 

l.. "EwotMoraens MEET . 9. 9 6 4. «2 6 we % . 158 
II. Tre rirst SKETCH OF TWO UGLY FiGURES . . 167 
Whe Tae PAR ©. Mes: eee suas 109 

BOOK V.— THE DESCENT. 

I. Procress 1x Buack Bean Maxinc. .... . . 173 
ee MIADETEINE Us 2% 9s eae Se et . 174 
III. Sums topcep at LAFITTe’s ee . 178 
IV. M. MapeLerne Gores INTO MougnninNG . .. . . 181 
V. Vacue Fiasnes on THE Horizon . . 183 
VI. Farner FAUCHELEVENT Re ha . 189 

VII. FaucHeLeveNT BECOMES A GARDENER AT Panis . . . . . 192 
VIII. Mapame Vicrurnien sPENDS TuHirty Francs on Moratrty 

Oo te Ee) A eal OR. . 193 

IX. Success or MapaAME VICTURNIEN . 196 

X. RESuLT OF HER SUCCESS . . . . 198 
XJ. Cwrisrus NOS LIBERAVIT . . . 2. 2 6 . 204 

XII. M. Bamatanors’ LeisuRE. . «© «1 ee ew ew hw we 908 
Bill. Tuk. Pouigt. Office 2. ee es te ee ROT 


CONTENTS xi 


BOOK VI.—JAVERT. 
CILAPTER PAGE 
I. Tue BEcInNING or Rest... eigen yew |p aeeene 
II. How “Jean ” may BECOME “ Chak? re A &lt;5 ghar gs VW ed te coc ee«, Teer 


BOOK VII.— THE CHAMPMATHIEU AFFAIR. 


Pe SIMECRE OIMPLICILY « y5&gt; &lt;&lt;. cen oy %: 1 3 es ye) ene ce cae 
II. Masrer ScavuFFuarre’s PERSPICACITY . . «© «© © « «© « 2d4 
TTT. “A. Tempest in A BEAIN 2. . « % 9% 6 «© «© © « «© ‘&lt;ee9 
IV. Tue Forms tuar SUFFERING TAKES IN SLEEP . . . . . 258 


WienODeEACTHSi 6 i 05 A Ug. “ey eo ue ca ees bes on et eo 

VI. Sister SIMPLICITY IS SORELY TRIED. . «© © © © «© «© «© 242 
VII. Tue TravELiter ON HIS ARRIVAL TAKES PRECAUTIONS FOR HIS 

FEED ce. &gt; aan bee nee, ees ee Pee ss ce Boe ee 

wld UNsIDE. HE COURT «. 2s) i. 6 Se oe a ee eee ees 


NC ee rae TAINS oe a. ot See sas ca’, “Gy. te ne ee ees ered 
X. Tue System or DENIAIS. . . 2. «© © © we tlw lll B94 
XI. CHAMPMATHIEU MORE AND MORE ASTOUNDED . . . © e« e ovdl 


BOOK VIII— THE COUNTERSTROKE. 


I. Iw waat Mirror M. MaveteIne Looxs at His Ham . . . 306 
I ODANTINE IS: HAPPY . &lt;« 2 «© % «© « “&amp; © 2 @ © smeug 
Pit; AVERT IM SATISFIED. «% 3 » « © © @ @ « © %&amp; «© 31S 
IV. AuvutTuHoritry rEsuMES Its RiGHTS . .. . . «© « « « 316 
Ve Ae ki@iame LOMB. 4 4.6% © sw oe « « 3 ee 220 


EEE Eee 


TE —_—&lt;_ = ~~ 


FANTINE 


BOOK I 
‘A JUST MAN 





CHAPTER I 
M. MYRIEL 


N 1815, M. Charles Francois Bienvenu Myriel was bishop 
of D He was a man of about seventy-five years 
of age, and had held the see of D since 1806. Al- 
though this detail in no way affects our narrative, it may 
not be useless, if merely for the sake of exactness, to quote 
the rumours that were current when he came to the diocese; 
for what is said of men, whether it be true or false, often 
occupies as important a place in their life, and especially in 
their destiny, as what they do. M. Myriel was the son of a 
councillor of the Parliament of Aix. It was said that his 
father, who intended that he should be his successor, mar- 
ried him at a very early age, eighteen or twenty, according 
to a not uncommon custom in parliamentary families. 

Charles Myriel, in spite of this marriage (so people said), 
had been the cause of much tattle. He was well built, 
though of short stature, elegant, graceful, and witty; and 
the earlier part of his life was devoted to the world and to 
gallantry. The Revolution came, events hurried on, and 








2 FANTINE 


the parliamentary families, decimated and hunted down, be- 
came dispersed. M. Charles Myriel emigrated to Italy in the 
early part of the Revolution, and his wife, who had been long 
suffering from a chest complaint, died there, leaving no chil- 
dren. What next took place in M. Myriel’s destiny? Did 
the overthrow of the old French society, the fall of his own 
family, and the tragic spectacles of °93, more frightful, per- 
haps, to the emigrants, who saw them from a distance with 
the, magnifying power of terror, cause ideas of renunciation 
and solitude to germinate in him? Was he, in the midst of 
one of the distractions and affections which occupied his life, 
suddenly assailed by one of those mysterious and terrible 
blows which often prostrate, by striking at his heart, a man 
whom public catastrophes could not shake by attacking his 
existence, and his fortune? No one could answer these ques- 
tions; all that was known was that when he returned from 
Italy he was a priest. 

In 1804, M. Myriel was the priest of B (Brig- 
nolles). He was already aged, and lived in great retirement. 
Toward the period of the coronation a small matter con- 
nected with his curacy, no one remembers what, took him 
to Paris. Among other powerful persons he applied to 
Cardinal Fesch on behalf of his parishioners. One day, 
when the Emperor was paying a visit to his uncle, the worthy 
priest, who was waiting in the anteroom, saw his Majesty 
pass. Napoleon, seeing that the old man viewed him with 
some curiosity, turned and asked sharply : — 

‘Who is this goodman who is staring at me? ” 

*¢ Sire,” said M. Myriel, “ you are looking at a good man 
and I at a great man. We may both profit by it.” 

The Emperor, on the same evening, asked the cardinal the 
priest’s name, and some time after M. Myriel, to his great 
surprise, learned that he had been made bishop of D : 
What truth, by the way, was there in the stories about M. 
Myriel’s early life? No one knew, for few persons were 
acquainted with his family before the Revolution. M. 
Myriel was fated to endure the lot of every new-comer in a 








FANTINE 3 


little town, where there are many mouths that talk, and but 
few heads that think. He was obliged to endure it, al- 
though he was bishop, and because he was bishop. But, after 
all, the stories with which his name was connected were only 
_ stories, rumours, words, remarks, less than words, mere pala- 
ver, to use a term borrowed from the energetic language of 
the South. However that might be, after ten years of Epis- 
copal residence at D , all this gossip, which at the outset 
affords matter of conversation for small towns and small peo- 
ple, had fallen into deep oblivion. No one would have dared 
to mention it, no one have dared to recall it. 

M. Myriel came to D » accompanied by an elderly 
lady, Mile. Baptistine, who was his sister, and ten years 
younger than himself. Their only servant was a woman of 
the same age as Mlle. Baptistine, Madame Magloire, who, 
having been the priest’s servant, now assumed the double 
title of waiting-woman to his sister, and housekeeper to Mon- 
seigneur. Mlle. Baptistine was a tall, pale, slim, gentle per- 
son; she realized the ideal expressed by the word “ respect- 
able,”? for it seems necessary for a woman to be a mother in 
order to be venerable. She had never been pretty, but her 
whole life, which had been but a succession of pious works, 
had at last endowed her with a sort of transparent pallor; 
and in growing older she had acquired what may be called the 
beauty of goodness. What had been thinness in her youth, 
became in her maturity transparency; and through this di- 
aphanous veil the angel could be seen. She seemed to be a 
shadow,— there was hardly enough body for a sex to exist; 
she was a small quantity of matter containing a spark of 
light; large eyes always downcast,— an excuse for a soul 
to remain upon the earth. Madame Magloire was a fair, 
plump, busy little body, always short of breath,— in the first 
place, through her activity, and, secondly, in consequence of 
asthma. 

On his arrival, M. Myriel was installed in his Episcopal 
paiace with ali the honours reauired by the imperial decrees. 
which class a bishop immediately after a major-general. The 








4 FANTINE 


mayor and the president paid him the first visit; and he on 
his side paid the first visit to the general and the prefect. 
When the installation was ended, the town waited to see its 
bishop at work. 





CHAPTER II 
M. MYRIEL BECOMES MONSEIGNEUR BIENVENU 


HE Episcopal palace of D adjoined the hospital. 
It was a vast and elegant mansion, built at the begin- 
ning of the last century by Monseigneur Henri Puget, Doc- 
tor of Theology of the Faculty of Paris, and priest of 
Simore, who was bishop of D in 1712. This palace 
was a true seigneurial residence; everything about it had a 
noble air,— the bishop’s apartments, the parlours, the bed- 
rooms, the courtyard, which was very vast, with arcades after 
the old Florentine fashion, and the gardens planted with 
magnificent trees. In the dining-room, a long and superb 
gallery on the ground-floor, Monseigneur Henri Puget gave 
a state dinner on July 29, 1714, to Messeigneurs Charles 
Brilart de Genlis, archbishop and prince of Embrun, Antoine 
de Mesgrigny, Capuchin and bishop of Grasse, Philip de 
Vendome, grand prior of France and priest of St. Honoré de 
Lérins, Frangois de Berton de Grillon, baron and bishop of 
Vence, Cesar de Sabran de Forcalquier, bishop, lord of Glan- 
déve, and Jean Soanen, priest of the Oratory, preacher in 
ordinary to the king, and lord bishop of Senez. The por- 
traits of these seven reverend personages decorated the din- 
ing-room, and the memorable date, July 29, 1714, was en- 
graved in letters of gold on a white marble tablet. 

The hospital was a small, single-storied house with a little 
garden. Three days after his arrival the bishop visited it; 
and when his visit was over, he asked the superintendent to 
be kind enough to come to his house. 








FANTINE 5 


“How many patients have you now? ” he asked. 

“Twenty-six, Monseigneur.” 

‘The number I counted,” said the bishop. 

. “The beds are very close together,” the superintendent 
added. 

** So I noticed.” 

‘‘' The wards are only bedrooms, and difficult to ventilate.” 

** I thought so.” 

“‘ And then, when the sun shines, the garden is very small 
for the convalescents.” 

“So I said to myself.” 

“ During epidemics,— and we had typhus fever this year, 
and the sweating sickness two years ago,— we have as many 
as one hundred patients, and do not know what to do with 
them.” 

Just what I thought.” 

“What would you have, Monseigneur!” said the superin- 
tendent ; “ we must put up with it.” 

This conversation had taken place in the dining-room on 
the ground-floor. The bishop was silent for a moment, and 

then turned abruptly to the superintendent. 
_ How many Leds,” he asked, * do you think that this room 
alone would hold? ” 

© Monsei¢~ cur’: dining-room? ” asked the amazed director. 

The bishop I-.ked round the room, and seemed to be meas- 
ing it with his eye and judging its capacity. 

‘It would hold at least twenty beds,” he said, as if speak- 
ing to himself; then, raising his voice, he added :-— 

“Come, I will tell you what it is. There is evidently a 
mistake. You have twenty-six persons in five or six small 
rooms. Here there are only three of us, and we have room 
for fifty. There is a mistake, I repeat; you have my house, 
and I have yours. Restore me mine; this is yours.” 

Next day the twenty-six poor patients were installed in 
the bishop’s palace, and the bishop was in the hospital. M. 
Myriel had no property, as his family had been ruined by 
the Revolution. His sister had an annuity of five hundred 


6 FANTINE 


francs, which sufficed for personal expenses. M. Myriel, as 
bishop, received from the State fifteen thousand francs a year. 
On the same day that he removed to the hospital, he settled 
the employment of that sum, once for all, in the following 
way. We copy a note in his own handwriting. 


THE REGULATION OF MY HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES. 


For the little Seminary . . .. . - « - 1500 fres. 


Congregation of the Mission. . . . « « - ~ 100 
The Lazarists of Montdidier . a ie seers cL OOR on 
Seminary of Foreign Missions at Paris . . . . 200 « 
Congregation of the Holy Ghost . . . . . - 150 “ 
Religious establishments in the Holy Land . . . 100 “ 
Societies of Maternal Charity . . ....- . 300 “ 
Additional for the one at Arles . . o 8 50 “ 
Works for improvement of prisons » « « 400 “ 
Relief and deliverance of prisoners - « 500 “ 
For liberation of fathers imprisoned for debt - 1000 “ 
Addition to the suey of poor school-masters in the 


diocese . : 2000 “ 
Distribution of grain in the Upper Alps so a Ss OO as 
Ladies’ Society for gratuitous instruction of poor 

girls at D——, Manosque, and Sisteron. . . 1500 “ 
For the poor . . 2. « » «© « « «6 « « « 6000 “ 
Personal expenses . . 2. 6 «© © «© © «© © eo 1000 


Total ° e ° e ° e ° ° e ° ‘e ° e 15,000 sé 











During the whole time that he held the see of D , M. 
Myriel made no change in this arrangement. He called this, 
as we see, regulating his household expenses. ‘The arrange- 
ment was accepted with a smile by Mlle. Baptistine; for that 
sainted woman regarded M. Myriel at once as her brother 
and her bishop,— her friend according to nature, her su- 
perior according to the Church. She loved and venerated 
him in the simplest way. When he spoke she bowed, when 
he acted she assented. ‘The servant alone, Madame Ma- 
gloire, murmured a little. ‘The bishop, it will be noticed, 
only reserved one thousand francs for himself, and on this 
sum, with Mlle. Laptistine’s pension, these two old women 
and the old man lived. And when a village priest came to 
D » the bishop managed to entertain him, thanks to the 











FANTINE 7 


strict economy of Madame Magloire and the sensible man- 
agement of Mlle. Baptistine. One day, when he had been at 
D about three months, the bishop said: — 

‘For all that, I am dreadfully hard put to it.” 

“TI should think so,” exclaimed Madame Magloire. 
“* Monseigneur has not even claimed the income which the 
department owes him for his carriage in town and for his 
visitations. That was the custom with bishops in other 
times.” 

“True,” said the bishop, * you are right, Madame Ma- 
gloire.’ He made his claim, and shortly after, the council- 
general, taking the demand into consideration, voted him 
the annual sum of three thousand francs, under the heading, 
** Allowance to the bishop for maintenance of carriage, post- 
ing charges, and outlay in visitations.” 

This caused an uproar among the townspeople, and a sen- 
ator of the empire, ex-member of the Council of the Five 
Hundred, favourable to the 18th Brumaire, and holding a 
magnificent appointment near D , wrote to the minister 
of public worship, Bigot de Préameneu, a short, angry, and 
confidential letter, from which we quote these authentic 
lines :— 








em . Maintenance of carriage! what can he want one for in 


a town of less than four thousand inhabitants? Visitation charges! 
In the first place, what is the good of visitations at all? and, secondly, 
how can he travel post in this mountainous country, where there are 
no roads, and people must journey on horseback? The very bridge over 
the Durance at Chateau Arnoux can hardly bear the weight of an ox- 
cart. These priests are all the same, greedy and avaricious! This one 
played the good apostle when he arrived, but now he is like the rest, 
and must have his carriage and post-chaise. He wishes to be as lux- 
urious as the old bishops. Oh, these priests! My lord, matters will 
never go on well till the Emperor has delivered us from the skullcaps. 
Down with the Pope! [There was a quarrel at the time with Rome.] 
As for me, I am for Cesar and Cesar alone; etc., etc., etc.” 


The affair, on the other hand, greatly gladdened Madame 
Magloire. ‘‘ Come,” she said to Mlle. Baptistine, ‘“ Mon- 
seigneur began with others, but he was obliged to end with 


8 FAN TINE 


himself after all. He has regulated all his charities, and _ 
here are three thousand francs for us at last!” 

That same evening the bishop wrote, and gave his sister, 
a note conceived thus :— 


CARRIAGE AND TRAVELLING EXPENSES. 


To provide the hospital patients with broth. . . 1500 fres. 
The Society of Maternal mara at ee o 6 « « 250 
Ditto at Draguignan . . eo « e « 250 
For foundlings . . . « « « © © «© «© « »« 500 * 
For orphans . . « « © «© «© © © © © « « 500 * 


Total e ° e e e e e e e ® e e e 3,000 i 





Such was M. Myyriel’s budget. As for any accidental re- 
ceipts, such as fees for bans, dispensations, consecrating 
churches or chapels, marriages, etc., the bishop collected them 
from the rich with so much the more eagerness because he 
distributed them to the poor. In a short time offerings of 
money flowed in. ‘Those who had and those who wanted 
tapped at M. Myriel’s door, the latter coming for the alms 
which the former had just deposited. In less than a year the 
bishop became the treasurer of all charity and the cashier 
of all distress. Considerable sums passed through his hands, 
but nothing could induce him to make any change in his 
mode of life or to add the slightest superfluity to his bare 
necessities. 

Far from it. As there is always more wretchedness below 
than brotherhood above, all was given, so to speak, before 
being received; it was like water on dry ground: however 
much he might receive, he never had a farthing. At such 
times he stripped himself. It being the custom for bishops 
to place their Christian names at the head of their mandates 
and pastoral letters, the poor people of the country with a 
kind of affectionate instinct, selected the one among their 
bishop’s names which conveyed a meaning to them, and called 
him Monseigneur (Bienvenu) Welcome. We will do like 
them, and call him so when occasion serves. Moreover, the 


FANTINE 9 


name pleased him. “I like that name,” he would say. “ The 
© Welcome’ makes up for the ‘ My Lord.’ ” 

We do not claim that the portrait we have drawn is prob- 
able; we merely say that it is a likeness. 





CHAPTER III 
A GOOD BISHOP; A HARD BISHOPRIC 


HE bishop, though he had converted his coach into alms, 
made his visitations none the less. The diocese of 
D is a fatiguing one; there are few plains, many moun- 
tains, and hardly any roads, as we saw just now; twenty- 
two curacies, forty-one vicarages, and two hundred and 
eighty-five chapels of ease. It was a task to visit all these, 
but the bishop managed to do it. He went on foot when . 
the place was near, in a cart when it was in the plain, and 
on muleback when it was in the mountains. The two old 
women generally accompanied him, but when the journey 
was too hard for them he went alone. 

One day he arrived at Senez, which is an old Episcopal 
town, mounted on a donkey; his purse, which was very light | 
at the time, had not allowed him any other equipage. The 
mayor of the city met him at the door of the bishop’s palace, 
and watched him dismount with scandalized eyes. A few 
townspeople were laughing around him. ‘“ Mr. Mayor and 
gentlemen,” said the bishop, “I see what it is that shocks 
you. You consider it great pride for a poor priest to ride an 
animal which our Saviour once rode. I did so from neces- 
sity, I assure you, and not from vanity.” 

On his travels the bishop was kind and indulgent, and 
preached less than he conversed. His arguments and exam- 
ples were never far-fetched, and to the inhabitants of one 
district he quoted the example of an adjacent district. In 





10 FANTINE 


those regions where people were harsh to the poor he would 
say, “Look at the people of Briangon. They have given 
the poor, the widows, and orphans the right to have their 
fields mowed three days before all the rest. They rebuild 
their houses for them gratuitously when they are in ruins. 
Hence it is a country blessed of God. For one hundred 
years not a single murder has been committed there.” To 
those eager for gain and good crops, he said, ‘‘ Look at the 
people of Embrun. If a father of a family at harvest-time 
has his sons in the army, his daughters serving in the town, 
or if he be ill or unable to work, the priest recommends him 
in his sermon; and on Sunday, after mass, all the villagers, 
men, women, and children, go into his field and cut and carry 
home his crop.” To families divided by questions of money 
or inheritance, he said, ‘* Look at the mountaineers of De- 
volny, a country so wild that the nightingale is not heard 
there once in fifty years. Well, when the father of a family 
dies there, the boys go off to seek their fortune, and leave 
the property to the girls, so that they may find husbands.” 
In those parts where the farmers were fond of lawsuits, and 
ruined themselves in writs, he would say, ‘*‘ Look at those 
good peasants of the valley of Queyras. There are three 
thousand souls there. Why, it is like a little republic. 
Neither judge nor bailiff is known there, and the mayor 
does everything. He divides the imposts, taxes everybody 
conscientiously, settles quarrels gratis, divides inheritances 
without fees, gives sentences without costs, and is obeyed be- 
cause he is a just man among simple men.” In villages 
where there was no school-master, he again quoted the people 
of Queyras. ‘Do you know what they do? As a small 
place containing only twelve or fifteen families cannot al- 
ways support a master, they have school-masters paid by 
the whole valley, who go from village to village, spending a 
week in one, ten days in another, and teaching. These mas- 
ters go to the fairs, where I have seen them. They can be 
recognized by the pens that they wear in their hat-bands. 
‘Those who only teach reading have but one pen; those who 


\ 








FANTINE 11 


teach reading and arithmetic have two; those who teach read- 
ing, arithmetic, and Latin have three. But what a disgrace 
it is to be ignorant! Do like the people of Queyras.” 

He spoke thus, gravely and paternally. When examples 
failed him he invented parables, going straight to the point, 
with few phrases and a good deal of imagery. His was the 
eloquence of the Apostles, convincing and persuading. 





CHAPTER IV 
WORKS RESEMBLING WORDS 


§ gee bishop’s conversation was affable and lively. He 
condescended to the level of the two old women who 
spent their life beside him, and when he laughed it was a 
school-boy’s laugh. Madame Magloire was fond of calling 
him “ your Eminence.” One day he rose from his easy- 
chair and went to fetch a book from his library: As it was 
on one of the top shelves, and as the bishop was short, he 
could not reach it. ‘* Madame Magloire,” he said, “ bring 
me a chair, for my Eminence does not reach to that shelf.” 
One of his distant relatives, the Countess de Lé, rarely let 
an opportunity slip to enumerate in his presence what she 
called the “ expectations ” of her three sons. She had sev- 
eral relatives who were very old and close to death’s door, of 
whom her sons were the natural heirs. The youngest of 
the three would inherit one hundred thousand francs a year 
from a great-aunt; the second would succeed to his uncle’s 
dukedom, the third to his grandfather’s peerage. The bishop 
generally listened in silence to this innocent and pardonable 
maternal display. Once, however, he seemed more dreamy 
than usual, while Madame de Lé was repeating all the details 
of their successions and “ expectations.” She broke off some- 
what impatiently. ‘Good gracious, cousin,” said she, 


12 FANTINE 


“what are you thinking about?” “I am thinking,” said 
the bishop, “ of something odd, which, if my memory serves 
me, is in Saint Augustine. ‘ Place your hopes in him to 
whom no one succeeds.’ ” 

On another occasion, receiving a letter announcing the 
death of a country gentleman, in which, in addition to the 
dignities of the defunct, all the feudal and noble titles of 
all his relatives were recorded,—** What a pair of shoulders 
death has! What a fine load of titles he is made lightly to 
bear,”’ he exclaimed, ‘‘ and what sense men must possess thus 
to employ the tomb in satisfying their vanity.” At times 
he was gifted with a gentle raillery, which nearly always con- 
tained a serious meaning. During one Lent a young vicar 
came to D and preached at the cathedral. He was 
rather eloquent, and the subject of his sermon was charity. 
He invited the rich to give to the poor in order to escape 
hell, which he painted in the most frightful way he could, 
and to gain paradise, which he made desirable and charming. 
There was among the congregation a rich, retired merchant, 
somewhat of a miser, who had made $400,000 by manufactur- 
ing coarse cloths, serges, and woollen galloons. Never in 
his whole life had M. Géborand given alms to a beggar, but 
after this sermon it was remarked that he gave a cent every 
Sunday to the old beggar women at the cathedral door. 
There were six of them to share it. One day the bishop saw 
him bestowing his charity, and said to his sister, with a 
smile, “Look at M. Géborand buying a cent’s worth of 
paradise.” 

When it was a question of charity, he would not let him- 
self be rebuffed even by a refusal, and at such times made 
remarks which caused people to reflect. Once he was beg- 
ging for the poor in a drawing-room of the town. The Mar- 
quis de Champtercier was present, a rich, avaricious, old man, 
who contrived to be at once ultra-Royalist and ultra-Voltair- 
ian. ‘This variety has existed. When the bishop came te 
him he touched his arm, “ Marquis, you must give me some- 
thing.” The marquis turned and answered drily: “I have 





FANTINE 13 


my own poor, my lord.” “Give them to me,” said the 
bishop. One day he delivered the following sermon at the 
cathedral :— 


““My very dear brethren, my good friends, there are in France thir- 
teen hundred and twenty thousand peasants’ houses which have only 
three openings; eighteen hundred and seventeen thousand which have 
only two openings,— the door and the window; and, lastly, three hun- 
dred and forty-six thousand hovels which have only one opening,— the 
door. All this comes from a thing called the door-and-window tax. 
Just place poor families, aged women, and little children, in these houses, 
and then see the fevers and sickness! Alas! God gives men fresh air, 
and fhe law sells it to them. I do not blame the law, but I bless God. 
In Isére, in Var, in the two Alps, Upper and Lower, the peasants have 
not even wheelbarrows, but carry manure on their backs; they have no 
candles, but burn resinous logs and pieces of rope dipped in pitch. 
It is the same through all the hilly part of Dauphiny. They make 
bread for six months, and bake it with dried cow-dung. In winter they 
break this bread with an axe and steep it in water for four and twenty 
hours before they can eat it. Brethren, have pity; see how people suffer 
around you!” 


A Provencal by birth, he soon became familiar with all 
the dialects of the South. He said Eh bé monssu sés sage, 
as in Lower Languedoc; Onté anaras passa, as in the Lower 
Alps; Puerte un bouen mouton embe un bouen fromage grase, 
as in Upper Dauphiny. This greatly pleased the people, 
and did no little to secure him admission to all minds. He 
was at home in the hut and on the mountain. He could say 
the grandest things in the most vulgar idiom, and as he 
spoke all languages he entered all hearts. However, he was 
the same to people of fashion as to the lower classes. 

He never condemned anything hastily or without taking 
the circumstances into account. He would say, “ Let us 
look at the road by which the fault has come.” Being, as 
he called himself with a smile, an ex-sinner, he had none of 
the asperities of the Puritan; and careless of the frowns of 
the unco’ good, he professed loudly a doctrine which might 
be summed up as follows: ‘‘ Man has upon him the flesh 
which is at once his burden and his temptation. He carries 
it with him and yields to it. He must watch, restrain, end 
repress it, and only obey it in the last extremity. In this 


14 FANTINE 


obedience there may still be a fault; but the fault thus com- 
mitted is venial. It is a fall, but a fall on the knees, which 
may end in prayer. To be a saint is the exception; to be a 
just man is the rule. Err, fail, sin, but be just. The least 
possible amount of sin is the law of man; no sin at all is the 
dream of angels. All that is earthly is subject to sin, for sin 
is a gravitation.” 

When people cried out and grew indignant he would say 
with a smile, “Oh, ho! it seems as if this is a great crime 
which all the world is committing. Look at the startled hypo- 
crites, hastening to protest and place themselves under cover.” 

He was indulgent to women and poor people, on whom 
the burden of human society presses. He would say, ‘ The 
faults of women, children, servants, the weak, the poor, and 
the ignorant are the fault of husbands, fathers, masters, the 
strong, the rich, and the learned.” He also said, “ ‘Teach the 
ignorant as much as you possibly can; society is to blame for 
not giving instruction freely, and is responsible for the night 
it produces. A soul is full of darkness, and sin is committed ; 
but the guilty person is not the man who commits the sin, 
but he who produces the darkness.” 

As we see, he had a strange manner, peculiarly his own, 
of judging things. I suspect that he obtained it from the 
Gospel. One day he heard im a drawing-room the story of 
a trial which was shortly to take place. A wretched man, 
through love of a woman and a child he had by her, having 
exhausted his resources, coined false money, which at that 
period was an offence punished by death. ‘The woman was 
arrested while passing the first false piece made by the man. 
She was held, but there was no proof against her. She alone 
could establish the charge against her lover and ruin him by 
confessing. She denied. ‘They pressed her, but she per- 
sisted in her denial. Upon this, the prosecuting lawyer had 
an idea: he invented an infidelity on the part of the lover, 
and contrived, by cleverly presenting the woman with frag- 
ments of letters, to persuade her that she had a rival, and 
that the man was deceiving her. Then, exasperated by Jeal- 


FANTINE 15 


ousy, she denounced her lover, confessed everything, proved 
everything. The man was ruined, and would shortly be 
tried with his accomplice at Aix. The story was told, and 
everybody was delighted with the lawyer’s cleverness. By 
bringing jealousy into play, he brought out the truth through 
passion, and obtained justice through revenge. ‘The bishop 
listened to all this in silence, and when they ended he asked: 
‘Where will this man and woman be tried?” ‘ At the 
assizes.” Then he continued, ‘And where will the prose- 
cuting attorney be tried? ” 

A tragic event occurred at D A man was con- 
demned to death for murder. He was a wretched fellow, not 
exactly educated, not exactly ignorant, who had been a 
mountebank at fairs and a public letter-writer. The trial 
attracted the attention of the townspeople. On the eve of the 
day of the execution the chaplain of the prison was taken 
ill, and a priest was wanted to attend the sufferer in his last 
moments. ‘The priest was sent for, and it seems that he re- 
fused, saying, “‘ It is no business of mine, I have nething 
to do with the mountebank. I am ill too; and _ besides, 
it is not my place.’ This answer was reported to the 
bishop, who said, “ He is right, it is not his place; it is 
mine.” He went instantly to the prison, entered the mounte- 
bank’s cell, called him by name, took his hand, and spoke to 
him. He spent the whole day with him, forgetting to sleep 
or to eat while praying to God for the soul of the condemned 
man. He told him the best truths, which are the most sim- 
ple. He was father, brother, friend,— bishop only to bless. 
He taught him everything, while reassuring and consoling 
him. This man was about to die in despair; death was to 
him like an abyss, and he shuddered as he stood on its mourn- 
ful brink. He was not ignorant enough to be completely 
indifferent, and his sentence, which was a profound shock, had 
broken through that wall which divides us from the mystery 
of things, and which we call life. He peered incessantly 
out of this world through these fatal breaches, and only saw 
darkness; but the bishop showed him a light. 





16 FANTINE 


On the morrow, when they came to fetch the wretched 
man, the bishop was with him. He followed him, and showed 
himself to the mob in his purple cassock, with the episcopal 
cross round his neck, side by side with this rope-bound wretch. 
He entered the cart with him; he mounted the scaffold with 
him. The victim, so gloomy and so cast down on the previ- 
ous day, was radiant; he felt that his soul was reconciled, 
and he hoped for heaven. ‘The bishop embraced him, and as 
the knife was about to fall, said: “The man whom his 
fellow-men kill, God raises from the dead. He whom his 
brothers reject, finds his Father once more. Pray, believe, 
enter into life! The Father is there!”? When he came down 
from the scaffold, there was something in his look which 
made the people make way for him; it was impossible to say 
whether his pallor or his serenity was the more to be ad- 
mired. On returning to the humble abode, which he smil- 
ingly called his palace, he said to his sister: ‘I have just 
been officiating pontifically.”’ 

As the most sublime things are often those least under- 
stood, there were persons in the town who said, in comment- 
ing on the bishop’s conduct, “ It is affectation.” This, how- 
ever, was only the talk of drawing-rooms ; the common people, 
who do not find evil intents in holy acts, were moved, and 
admired him. As for the bishop, the sight of the guillotine 
was a shock to him, and it was long ere he recovered from it. 

The scaffold, in fact, when it stands erect before you, has 
something about it that produces hallucination. We may 
feel a certain amount of indifference to the death penalty; 
we may refrain from expressing an opinion, from saying 
yes or not, so long as we have never seen a guillotine with 
our own eyes; but when we have come across one, the shock 
is violent, and we must decide either for or against. Some 
admire it, like De Maistre; others execrate it, like Beccaria. 
The guillotine is the concretion of the law; it is called 
vindicta. It is not neutral, and does not allow you to remain 
neutral. He who sees it, shudders with the most mysterious 
of shudders. All social questions raise their notes of in- 


FANTINE 17 


terrogation around this chopping-knife. The scaffold is a 
vision; it is not a piece of carpenter’s work, it is not a ma- 
chine, it is not a lifeless mechanism made of wood, steel, and 
ropes. It seems to be a living being possessing a gloomy 
power of initiative; we might say that the wood-work lives, 
that the machine hears, that the mechanism understands, that 
the wood, the steel, and the ropes have a will of their own. 
In the frightful dream into which its presence casts the soul, 
the scaffold seems terrible, and to take a personal part in 
what it does. ‘The scaffold is the accomplice of the execu- 
tioner ; it devours; it eats flesh and drinks blood. The scaf- 
fold is a monster, manufactured by the judge and the car- 
penter,— a spectre that seems to live a sort of horrible hfe 
made up of all the death it has inflicted. Hence the im- 
pression was terrible and deep; on the day after the execu- 
tion, and for many days, the bishop appeared to be crushed. 
The almost violent serenity of the mournful moment had 
vanished; the phantom of social justice haunted him. He 
who usually returned from all his sacred functions with such 
radiant satisfaction seemed to be reproaching himself. At 
times he talked to himself, and stammered disconnected sen- 
tences in a low voice. Here is one which his sister overheard 
and treasured up: “I did not think that it was so mon- 
strous. It is wrong to become so absorbed in the divine law 
as to lose sight of the human law. Death belongs to God 
alone. By what right do men meddle with that unknown 
thing? ” 

In time these impressions were weakened, and perhaps ef- 
faced. Still it was noticed that from this time the bishop 
avoided crossing the place of execution. 

M. Myriel might be called at any hour to the bedside 
of the sick and dying. He knew that his greatest duty and 
greatest labour lay there. Widowed or orphaned families 
had no occasion to send for him, for he came without being 
called. He had the art of sitting down and holding his 
tongue for hours, beside a man who had lost the wife he 
ered. or a mother bereaved of her child. As he knew when 


18 FANTINI 


to be silent, he also knew when to speak. What an admi- 
rable consoler he was! He did not try to efface grief by 
forgetfulness, but to aggrandize and dignify it by hope. 
He would say: ‘‘ Beware how you turn to the dead. Do 
not think of that which perishes. Look fixedly, and you 
will see the living light of your beloved dead in heaven.” He 
knew that faith is healthy; and he sought to counsel and 
calm the desperate man by pointing out to him the resigned 
man, and to transform the grief that gazes at a grave by 
showing it the grief that looks at a star. 





CHAPTER V 
MONSEIGNEUR MAKES HIS CASSOCKS LAST TOO LONG 


MYRIEL’S domestic life was full of the same thoughts 

- as his public life. To any one inquiring closely 

into it, the voluntary poverty in which the bishop lived 

would have been a solemn and charming sight. Like all old 

men, and like most thinkers, he slept little, but that short 

sleep was deep. In the morning he mused for an hour, and 

then said mass either at the cathedral or at home. Mass 

over, he breakfasted on rye bread dipped in the milk of his 
own cows. ‘Then he set to work. 

A bishop is a very busy man. He must daily receive the 
secretary of the bishopric, who is generally a canon, and’ 
almost every day his vicars-general. He has congregations 
to censure, permissions to grant, a whole ecclesiastical library 
to examine, in the shape of prayer-books, diocesan cate- 
chisms, books of hours, etc.; charges to write, sermons to 
authorize, priests and mayors to reconcile, a clerical corre- 
spondence, an administrative correspondence, on one side the 
State, on the other the Holy See,—in a word, a thousand 
tasks. The time which these thousand tasks, his offices, and 


FANTINE 19 


his breviary left him, he gave first to the poor, the sick, and 
the afflicted ; the time which the afflicted, the sick, and the poor 
left him, he gave to work. Sometimes he hoed in his gar- 
den, at other times he read and wrote. He had only one 
name for both sorts of labour; he called them gardening. 
“The mind is a garden,” he would say. 

Toward midday, when the weather was fine, he went out 
and walked in the country or in town, frequently entering 
the cottages. He could be seen walking alone in deep 
thought, looking down, leaning on his long cane, dressed in 
his warm, wadded, violet garment, with his violet stockings 
thrust into clumsy shoes, and wearing his flat hat, through 
each corner of which were passed three golden acorns as 
tassels. It was a festival wherever he appeared; it seemed 
as if his passing had something warming and cheering about 
it. Old men and children came to the door to greet the 
bishop as they did the sun. He blessed them and they blessed 
him, and his house was pointed out to anybody who was in 
want of anything. Now and then he stopped, spoke to the 
little boys and girls and smiled on their mothers. He visited 
the poor so long as he had any money; when he had none, he 
visited the rich. As he made his cassocks last a long time, 
and did not wish the fact to be noticed, he never went into 
town save in his wadded violet coat. This was rather un- 
comfortable in summer. 

On returning home he dined. The dinner resembled the 
breakfast. At half-past eight in the evening he supped with 
his sister, Madame Magloire standing behind them and wait- 
ing on them. Nothing could be more frugal than this meal; 
but if the bishop had a priest to supper, Madame Magloire 
would take advantage of it to serve Monseigneur with some 
excellent fish from the lake, or fine game from the mountains. 
Every priest furnished an excuse for a good meal, and the 
bishop held his tongue. On other occasions his repast con- 
sisted only of vegetables boiled in water and soup made with 
oil. Hence it was said in the town: ‘“ When the bishop 
does not fare like a priest, he fares like a trappist.” 


20 FANTINE 


After supper he conversed for half an hour with Mlle. 
Baptistine and Madame Magloire; then he retired to his 
room and began writing again, either on loose leaves or on 
the margin of some folio. He was well read and a bit of a 
scholar, and left behind him five or six curious MSS. on 
theological subjects; among others, a dissertation on the 
verse of Genesis, The Spirit of God moved on the face of the 
waters. He compares this verse with three texts: the Arabic 
version, The winds of God blew; that of Josephus, A wind 
from on high fell upon the earth; and the Chaldaic para- 
phrase of Onkelos, 4 wind from God breathed upon the face 
of the waters. In another of these dissertaticns he examines 
the works of Hugo, bishop of Ptolemais, great-grand-uncle 
of him who writes this book, and he proves that to this bishop 
must be attributed the various opuscules published in the last 
century under the pseudonym of Barleycourt. At times, 
in the midst of his reading, no matter what book he held in 
his hands, he would suddenly fall into a deep meditation, from 
which he only emerged to write a few lines on the pages of the 
book. These lines have frequently no connection with the 
book that contains them. We have before us a note writ- 
ten by him on the margin of a quarto entitled ‘ Corre- 
spondence of Lord Germain with Generals Clinton and Corn- 
wallis, and the Admirals of the American Station. Ver- 
sailles, Poincot, bookseller; and Paris, Pissot, bookseller, 
Quai des Augustins.” Here is the note: 

“OQ Thou that art! Ecclesiastes calls Thee Omnipotent ; 
the Maccabees call Thee Creator; the Epistle to the Ephe- 
sians calls Thee Liberty; Baruch calls Thee Immensity; the 
Psalms call Thee Wisdom and Truth; St. John calls Thee 
Light; the Book of Kings calls Thee Lord; Exodus calls 
Thee Providence; Leviticus, Holiness; Esdras, Justice; Crea- 
tion calls Thee God; man calls Thee Father; but Solomon 
calls Thee Mercy, and that is the fairest of all Thy names.” 

About nine o’clock the two women withdrew to their bed- 
rooms on the first-floor, leaving him alone till morning, on 
She ground-floor. Here we must give an exact idea of the 
bishop’s apartments. 


FANTINE 21 


CHAPTER VI 
BY WHOM THE HOUSE WAS GUARDED 


HE house he lived in consisted, as we have said, of a 
ground-floor and one story above, three rooms on the 
ground, three bedrooms on the first-floor, and above them a 
garret. Behind the house was a quarter of an acre of gar- 
den. The two women occupied the first-floor, and the bishop 
lodged below. ‘The first room, which opened on the street, 
served him as dining-room, the second as bedroom, the third 
as oratory. You could not get out of the oratory without 
passing through the bedroom, or out of the bedroom without 
passing through the dining-room. At the end of the oratory 
was a closed alcove with a bed, for any one who stayed the 
night, and this bed the bishop offered to country priests 
whom business or the calls of their parish brought to D 
The hospital surgery, a small building added to the house 
and built on a part of the garden, had been altered into 
kitchen and cellar. ‘There was also in the garden a stable 
which had formerly been the hospital kitchen, and in which 
the bishop kept two cows. Whatever the quantity of milk 
they yielded, he invariably sent one-half every morning to 
the hospital patients. ‘I am paying my tithes,” he was 
wont to say. 

His room was rather spacious, and very hard to heat in 
cold weather. As wood is excessively dear at D » he 
hit on the idea of partitioning off a portion of the cow-house 
with planks. Here he spent his evenings during severe sea- 
sons, and called it his “ winter parlour.” Here, as in the 
dining-room, there was no furniture but a square deal table 
and four straw chairs. The dining-room was also adorned 
with an old side-board stained to imitate rosewood. The 
bishop had made the altar which decorated his oratory, out 
of a similar side-board, suitably draped with white cloths and 








22 FANTINE 


imitation lace. His rich penitents and the religious ladies of 
D had often subscribed to pay for a handsome new 
altar for Monseigneur’s oratory; each time he took the 
money and gave it to the poor. “ The finest of all altars,” 
he would say, “is the soul of an unhappy man who is con- 
soled and thanks God.” 

; There were in his oratory two straw prie-dieus, and in 
his bedroom an arm-chair, also of straw. When by chance 
he received seven or eight persons at the same time, the 
prefect, the general, the staff of the regiment quartered in 
the town, or some pupils of the seminary, the chairs had 
to be brought in from the winter parlour, the prie-dieus 
from the oratory, and the arm-chair from the bedroom; in this 
way as many as eleven seats could be collected for the visitors. 
For each new visitor a room was stripped. It sometimes 
happened that there were twelve; in such a case, the bishop 
concealed the embarrassing situation by standing before the 
fire if it was winter, or walking up and down the room if it 
was summer. 

There was also another chair in the alcove, but the straw 
was half gone, and it had but three legs, so that it could only 
be used when propped against the wall. Mlle. Baptistine 
also had in her bedroom a very large wooden easy-chair, 
which had once been gilt and covered with flowered chintz, 
but it had been necessary to hoist this chair to the first-floor 
through the window, owing to the narrowness of the stairs ; 
and hence it could not be reckoned on in any emergency. 
It had been Mlle. Baptistine’s ambition to buy parlour 
furniture of mahogany covered with yellow plush; but this 
would have cost at least five hundred francs, and, seeing that 
she had only succeeded in saving for this object forty-two 
francs and five sous in five years, she gave up the idea. Be- 
sides, who is there that ever attains his ideal? 

Nothing more simple can be imagined than the bishop’s bed- 
room,— a long window opening on the garden; opposite it, 
the bed, an iron hospital-bed with a canopy of green serge; 
in the shadow of the bed, behind a curtain, toilet articles, 





FANTINE 23 


still revealing the elegant habits of the man of fashion; two 
doors, one near the fireplace leading to the oratory, the other 
near the bookcase leading to the dining-room. The bookcase 
was a large cupboard with glass fronts, full of books; the 
fireplace of wood, painted to imitate marble, was habitually 
fireless ; in the fireplace were a pair of iron andirons orna- 
mented with two vases, with garlands and flutings which had 
once been silvered,— a species of Episcopal luxury ; over the 
fireplace a crucifix of copper, from which the silver had been 
rubbed off, fastened to threadbare black velvet, in a frame 
which had lost its gilding; by the window, was a large table 
with an inkstand, loaded with a confusion of papers and 
heavy tomes; before the table, the straw arm-chair; in front 
of the bed, a prie-dieu borrowed from the oratory. 

Two portraits, in oval frames, hung on the wall on either 
side of the bed. Small gilded inscriptions on the neutral- 
tinted ground of the canvas by the side of the figures indi- 
cated that the portraits represented, one the Abbé de Chaliot, - 
bishop of St. Claude; the other the Abbé Tourteau, vicar- 
general of Agde and abbé of Grand Champs, belonging to 
the Cistercian order in the diocese of Chartres. ‘The bishop, 
on inheriting this room from the hospital patients, found the 
pictures there, and left them. They were priests, probably 
donors,— two motives for respecting them. All he knew of 
the two personages was that they were appointed by the king, 
the one to his bishopric, the other to his benefice, an the 
same day, April 27, 1785. Madame Magloire having taken 
down the portraits to remove the dust, the bishop found this 
circumstance recorded in faded ink, on a small square of paper 
turned yellow by time, and fastened by four wafers behind 
the portrait of the abbé of Grand Champs. 

He had at his window an antique curtain of heavy woollen 
stuff, which had grown so old that Madame Magloire, in 
order to avoid the expense of a new one, was obliged to make 
a large patch in the very middle of it. The patch formed a 
cross, and the bishop often drew attention to it. ‘* How 
pleasant that is,” he would say. Al] the rooms in the house, 


24 FANTINE 


ground-floor and first-floor, were whitewashed, which is the 
fashion in barracks and hospitals. Still, some years later, 
Madame Magloire discovered, as we shall see further on, 
paintings, under the whitewashed paper, in Mlle. Baptistine’s 
bedroom. Before it was a hospital, this house had been the 
Town Hall. Hence this decoration. ‘The rooms were paved 
with red bricks, which were washed every week; and there 
were straw mats in front of all the beds. ‘The house, more- 
over, managed by two women, was exquisitely clean from top 
to bottom; this was the only luxury the bishop allowed him- 
self, for, as he said, “ It takes nothing from the poor.” We 
must admit, however, that of their former possessions there 
still remained six silver spoons and forks and a soup-ladle, 
which Madame Magloire daily viewed with delight, shining 
splendidly on the coarse white table-cloth. And as we are 
here depicting the bishop of D as he was, we must add 
that he had said, more than once, “I do not think I could 
give up eating with silver.” To this plate must be added 
two heavy candlesticks of massive silver, which the bishop 
inherited from a great-aunt. These candlesticks held two 
wax candles, and usually figured on the bishop’s mantle- 
piece. When he had any one to dinner, Madame Magloire lit 
the candles and placed the two candlesticks on the table. 
There was in the bishop’s bedroom, at the head of his bed, a 
small cupboard in the wall, in which Madame Magloire each 
night placed the forks and spoons and the large ladle; I am 
bound to add that the key was never taken out. 

The garden, spoiled to some extent by the ugly buildings 
to which we have referred, was composed of four walks, 
radiating from a small pond; another walk ran all round 
the garden close to the surrounding white wall. Between 
these walks were four box-bordered squares. In three of 
them Madame Magloire grew vegetables; in the fourth the 
bishop had planted flowers; here and there were a few fruit- 
trees. Once Madame Magloire said, with a sort of gentle 
mischief, “ My lord, although you turn everything to use, 
here is a useless plot. It would be better to have lettuces 





FANTINE 25 


than bouquets.”? ‘‘ Madame Magloire,” the bishop answered, 
“‘ you are mistaken ; the beautiful is as useful as the useful.” 
He added, after a moment’s silence, ‘‘ More so, perhaps.” 

This plot, composed of three or four beds, oecupied the 
bishop almost as much as his books did. He liked to spend 
an hour or two there, cutting, raking,.and making holes in 
which he dropped seeds. He was not so hostile to insects as 
a gardener would have liked. However, he made no preten- 
sions to botany; he was ignorant of groups and consistency ; 
he did not make the slightest attempt to decide between 
Tournefort and the natural method; he was not a partisan 
either of Jussieu or Linneus. He did not study plants, but 
he loved flowers. He greatly respected learned men, but 
he respected the ignorant even more; and, without ever fail- 
ing in these two respects, he watered his beds every summer 
evening with a green tin watering-pot. 

The house had not a single door that locked. The door 
of the dining-room, which, as we said, opened directly on the 
cathedral square, had formerly been adorned with bolts and 
locks like a prison gate. The bishop had all this iron re- 
moved, and the door was only latched either night or day; 
the first passer-by, no matter the hour, had only to push it. 
At the outset, the two women were greatly alarmed by this 
never-closed door; but the bishop said to them, ** Have bolts 
placed on the doors of your rooms if you like.” In the end 
they shared his confidence, or at least affected to do so; 
Madame Magloire alone was frightened from time to time. 
As regards the bishop, his idea is explained, or at least in- 
dicated, by these three lines, which he wrote on the margin 
of a Bible: ‘ This is the distinction: the physician’s door 
should never be closed; the priest’s door should always be 
open.” In another book, entitled ‘‘ Philosophy of Medical 
Science,”? he wrote this other note: ‘* Am I not a physician 
like them? I also have my patients; in the first place, I have 
theirs, whom they call the sick, and then I have my own, 
whom I call the unhappy.” Again, he wrote: “ Do not 
ask the name of the man who seeks a bed from you, for the 


=&gt; 


26 FANTINE 


man who is embarrassed by his name is the very one that needs 
shelter.” 

It came about that a worthy priest —I forget whether he 
came from Couloubroux or Pompierry — thought proper to 
ask one day, probably at the instigation of Madame Magloire, 
whether my lord was quite certain that he was not acting 
rather imprudently in leaving his door open day and night 
for any who liked to enter, and if he did not fear lest some 
msifortune might happen in a house so poorly guarded. 
The bishop tapped his shoulder with gentle gravity, and 
said, ‘* Nisi dominus custodierit domum, in vanum vigilant 
qui custodiunt eam.” ! 

Then he spoke of something else. He was fond of say- 
ing, too, * There is the bravery of the priest as well as that 
of the colonel of dragoons, only,” he added, “ ours must be a 
quiet bravery.” 





CHAPTER VII 
CRAVATTE 


HIS is the natural place for a fact which we must not 
omit, for it is one of those which best show us what 
manner of man the bishop of D was. After the de- 
struction of the band of Gaspard Bés, which had infested 
the gorges of Ollioules, Cravatte, one of his lieutenants, 
took refuge in the mountains. He hid himself for a time 
with his brigands, the remnant of Bés’s band, in the district of 
Nice, then went to Piedmont, and suddenly re-appeared in 
France, near Barcelonnette. He was seen first at Jauziers, 
and next at Tuiles; he hid himself in the caves of the Joug 
de l’Aigle, and descended thence on the hamlets and villages 
by the ravines of the Ubaye. He even pushed as far as 





1 Unless the Lord guard the house, in vain do they watch who guard it. 


FANTINE 27 


Embrun, entered the church one night and plundered the 
sacristy. Huis robberies laid waste the country, and the po- 
lice were in vain placed on his track. He constantly es- 
caped, and at times even offered resistance, for he was a bold 
scoundrel. In the midst of all this terror, the bishop ar- 
rived on his way to Chastelar, and the mayor came to urge 
him to turn back. Cravatte held the mountains as far as 
Arche and beyond, and there was danger, even with an escort. 
It would be uselessly Senne three or four unhappy police 
officers. 

‘“‘ For that reason,” said the bishop, “I intend to go with- 
out escort.” 

** Can you mean it, my lord? ” exclaimed the mayor. 

“I mean it so fully that I absolutely refuse an escort, 
and intend to start in an hour.” 

*¢ My lord, you will not do that!” 

“There is in the mountains,” the bishop continued, “a 
humble little parish, which I have not visited for three years. 
They are good friends of mine, quiet, honest shepherds. 
They own one goat out of every thirty that they guard; 
they make very pretty woollen cords of different colours, 
and they play mountain airs on small six-holed flutes. They 
need to hear about heaven every now and then; and what 
would they think of a bishop who was afraid? What would 
they say if I did not go?” 

* But, my lord, the robbers!” 

“‘ Ah,” said the bishop, “‘ you are right; I may meet them. 
They too must need to be told about heaven.” 

** My lord, they are a pack of wolves.” 

“Mr. Mayor, it may be that this is the very flock of which 
Christ has made me the shepherd. Who knows the ways of 
Providence? ” 

“¢ My lord, they will rob you.” 

“T have nothing.” 

“They will kill you.” 

“‘ A poor old priest who passes along mumbling his pray- 
ers? Nonsense; what good would that do them? ” 


28 FANTINE 


** Oh, good gracious, if you were to meet them!” 

** IT would ask them for alms for my poor.” 

** My lord, do not go. In Heaven’s name, my lord! You 
risk your life.” 

** My good sir,” said the bishop, “is that all? I am not 
in this world to save my life, but to save souls.” 

There was no help for it, and he set out accompanied only 
by a lad who offered to act as his guide. His obstinacy cre- 
ated a sensation in the country, and caused considerable 
alarm. 

He would not take either his sister or Madame Magloire 
with him. He crossed the mountain on muleback, met neo- 
body, and reached his good friends, the goat-herds, safe 
and sound. He remained with them a fortnight, preach- 
ing, administering the sacraments, teaching, and exhorting. 
When he was ready to start for home, he resolved to sing a 
Te Deum pontifically, and mentioned it to the priest. But 
what was to be done? ‘There were no Episcopal ornaments. 
All that could be placed at his disposal was a poor village 
sacristy, with a few worn damask chasubles, trimmed with 
cheap gold lace. 

“Bah!” said the bishop; ‘announce the Te Deum in 
your sermon, for all that. It will come right in the end.” 

_ Inquiries were made in the surrounding churches; but all 

the magnificence of these humble parishes united would not 
have been sufficient to decently equip a cathedral chorister. 
While they were in this embarrassment, a large chest was 
brought and left at the priest’s house for the bishop by two 
strange horsemen, who started off again at once. The chest 
was opened and found to contain a cope of cloth of gold, a 
mitre adorned with diamonds, an archbishop’s cross, a mag- 
nificent crozier, and all the pontifical robes stolen a month 
back from the treasury of our Lady of Embrun. In the 
chest was a paper on which was written these words: “ Cra- 
vatte to Monseigneur Bienvenu.” 

“Did I not tell you that it would be all right?” the 
bishop said. ‘Then he added, with a smile, ‘ Heaven sends 


. 


FANTINE 29 


an archbishop’s cope to a man who is content with a priest’s 
surplice.” 

““My lord,” the priest muttered, with a gentle shake of 
his head, *“* Heaven or — the devil.”’ 

The bishop looked fixedly at the priest and repeated au- 
thoritatively, ** Heaven! ” 

When he returned to Chastelar, and all along the road, 
he was regarded curiously. He found at the presbytery of 
that town Mlle. Baptistine and Madame Magloire waiting 
for him, and he said to his sister, “ Well, was I right? The 
poor priest went among those poor mountaineers with empty 
hands, and returns with his hands full. I set forth, taking 
with me only my trust in Heaven, and I bring back the 
treasures of a cathedral.” 

The same evening, before he went to bed, he said, “* Never 
let us fear robbers or murderers. 'These are external and 
small dangers; let us fear ourselves; prejudices are the real 
robbers, vices the true murderers. The great dangers are 
within ourselves. Let us not trouble about what threatens 
our head or purse, and think only of what threatens our 
soul.” Then, turning to his sister, he added, “ Sister, a 
priest ought never to take precautions against his neighbour. 
What his neighbour does God permits;,so let us confine our- 
selves to praying to God when we believe that a danger is im- 
pending over us. Let us pray, not for ourselves, but that 
our brother may not fall into error on our account.” 

Events, however, were rare in his existence. We relate 
those we know, but ordinarily he spent his life in doing the 
same things at the same moment. A month of his year re- 
sembled an hour of his day. As to what became of the 
treasure of Embrun cathedral, we should be greatly em- 
barrassed if questioned on that head. There were many 
fine things, very tempting, and well adapted to be stolen 
for the benefit of the unfortunate. Stolen they were al- 
ready ; one half of the adventure was accomplished; the only 
thing left to be done was to change the direction of the 
robbery, and divert it toward the poor. Still, we affirm 


30 FANTINE 


nothing on the subject; only among the bishop’s papers a 
rather obscure note was found, which probably refers to this 
affair, and was thus conceived: ‘* The question is to know 
whether it ought to go to the cathedral or the hospital.” 





CHAPTER VIII 
PHILOSOPHY AFTER DRINKING 


HE senator, to whom we have already alluded, was a 
clever man, who had made his way with a rectitude 
heedless of all those things which constitute obstacles, and 
which are called conscience, plighted word, right and duty; 
he had gone straight to his object without once swerving 
from the line of his promotion and his interest. He was an 
ex-attorney, softened by success, anything but a bad man, 
doing all the little services in his power for his sons, his 
sons-in-law, his relatives, and even his friends; he had wisely 
seized upon the best opportunities, the best sides, and the 
best windfalls in life, and the rest seemed to him very stupid. 
He was witty, and just sufficiently educated to believe him- 
self a disciple of Epicurus, while probably only a product of 
Pigault Lebrun. He was fond of laughing pleasantly at 
things infinite and eternal, and at the crotchets “of our 
worthy bishop.” He even laughed at them with amiable 
authority in M. Myyriel’s presence. On some semi-official oc- 
casion the Count (this senator) and M. Myriel met at 
the prefect’s table. At dessert the senator, who was some- 
what merry but quite dignified, said :— 

“Come, bishop, let us have a chat. A senator and a 
bishop can hardly meet without winking at each other, for 
we are two augurs; and I have a confession to make to you. 
I have my system of philosophy.” 

“And you are right,” the bishop answered; “ as we make 





FANTINE 31 


our philosophy, so we must lie on it. You are on the bed 
of purple.” 

The senator, thus encouraged, continued,— Let us be 
candid.” 

** Decidedly.” 

“I declare to you,” the senator went on, “ that the Mar- 
quis d’Argens, Pyrrho, Hobbes, and Naigeon are no im- 
postors. I have all my philosophers in my library, with 
gilt backs.” 

‘Like yourself, count,” the bishop interrupted. 

The senator proceeded :-— 

“IT hate Diderot; he is an ideologist, a declaimer, and a 
revolutionist, believing in his heart in Deity, and more bigoted 
than Voltaire. Voltaire ridiculed Needham, and he was 
wrong; for Needham’s eels prove that God is unnecessary. 
A drop of vinegar in a spoonful of flour supplies the fiat luz; 
suppose the drop larger, and the spoonful bigger, and you 
have the world. Man is the eel: then of what use is the 
Eternal Father? My dear bishop, the Jehovah hypothesis 
bores me; it is good for nothing but to produce shallow peo- 
ple whose reasoning is hollow. Down with the great All, 
which annoys me! Long live Zeno, who leaves me at peace! 
Between ourselves, and to confess to my pastor, as is right 
and proper, I confess that I possess common sense. I am 
not wild about your Saviour, who is forever preaching ab- 
negation and sacrifice. It is the advice of a miser to beggars. 
Abnegation, why? Sacrifice, to what end? I do not see 
that one wolf sacrifices itself for the happiness of another 
wolf. Let us, therefore, stick to nature. We are at the 
top, so let us have the supreme philosophy. What is the use 
of being at the top, if you cannot see further than the end 
of other people’s noses? Let us live gayly, for life is all in 
all. As for man having a future elsewhere, above, below, 
anywhere, I do not believe a syllable of it. Oh, yes! recom- 
mend sacrifices and abnegation to me. I must take heed to 
all I do. I must rack my brains about good and evil, jus- 
tice and injustice, fas et nefas. Why so? Because I shall 


320 CO FANTINE 


have to account for my actions. When? After death. 
What a fine dream,— after death! He will be a clever fel- 
low who catches me. Just think of a lump of ashes seized 
by the hand of a shadow. Let us speak the truth, we who 
are initiated and have raised the veil of Isis; there is no 
good, no evil, but there is vegetation. Let us seek reality 
- and go to the root of the matter. Hang it all! we must 
scent out the truth, dig into the ground for it and seize it. 
Then it offers exquisite delights; then you grow strong and 
laugh. I am square at the base, my dear bishop; and the 
immortality of man is a thing to which anybody who likes 
may listen. Oh, what a charming prospect! What a fine 
billet Adam has! You are a soul; you will be an angel, 
and have blue wings on your shoulder-blades. Come, help 
me; is it not Tertullian who says that the blessed will go from 
one planet to the other? Very good; they will be the grass- 
hoppers of the planets. And then they will see God. Ta, 
ta, ta! ‘These paradises are all nonsense, and God is a mons- 
trous fable. I would not say so in the ‘ Moniteur,’ of course, 
but I whisper it between friends, inter pocula. 'To sacrifice 
the world for paradise is to give up the substance for the 
shadow. I am not such an ass as to be the dupe of the 
Infinite. I am nothing; my name is Count Nothing, Sen- 
ator. Did I exist before my birth? No. Shall I exist after 
my death? No. What am I? A hittle dust aggregated 
by an organism. What have I to do on this earth? I have 
the choice between suffering and enjoyment. To what will 
suffering lead me? ‘To nothingness, but I shall have suf- 
fered. To what will enjoyment lead me? ‘To nothingness, 
but I shall have enjoyed. My choice is made. A man must 
either eat or be eaten; and so I eat, for it is better to be 
the tooth than the grass. That is my wisdom; after which, 
go on as I impel you; the grave-digger is there, the Pantheon 
for such as us, and all fall into the great hole. Finis, and 
total liquidation, that is the vanishing point. Death is dead, 
take my word for it; and I laugh at the idea of any one 
present having anything to tell me on that subject. It is a 


FANTINE 33 


nurse’s story,— bugaboo for children, Jehovah for men. No, 
our morrow is night; behind the tomb there is nothing but 
equal nothingness. You may have been Sardanapalus, you 
may have been Saint Vincent de Paul, but it all comes to 
the same thing. That is the truth, so live your life, above 
all else. Make use of your ego, so long as you hold it. In 
truth, I tell you, my dear bishop, I have my philosophy, and 
I have my philosophers, and I do not let myself be deluded 
by fables. After all, something must be offered to those 
who are down in the world,— the barefooted, the needy knife- 
grinders, and the wretched; and so we give them legends, chi- 
meras, the soul, immortality, paradise, the stars, to swallow. 
They chew that and put it on their dry bread. ‘The man who 
has nothing has God, and that is something, at any rate. I 
do not oppose it, but I keep M. Naigeon for myself; God is 
good for the people.” 

The bishop clapped his hands. 

“That is what I call talking,” he exclaimed. “ Ah, what 
an excellent and truly wonderful thing this materialism is! 
It is not every man who wishes that can have it. Ah! when a 
man has reached that point, he is no longer a dupe; he does 
not let himself be stupidly exiled, like Cato; or stoned, like 
Saint Stephen; or burned, like Joan of Arc. Those who 
succeed in acquiring this materialism have the joy of feeling 
themselves irresponsible, and of thinking that they can devour 
everything without anxiety,— places, sinecures, power well 
or ill gained, dignities, lucrative contradictions, useful treach- 
ery, folly, savoury capitulations of conscience, and that they 
will go down to the tomb with their digestion accomplished. 
How agreeable this is! I am not referring to you, my dear 
senator, still I cannot refrain from congratulating you. You 
great gentlemen have, as you say, a philosophy of your 
own, and for yourselves,— exquisite, refined, accessible to the 
rich alone, good with any sauce, and admirably seasoning the 
joys of life. This philosophy is drawn from the depths, 
and dug up by special searchers. But you are amiable 
Bence, and think it no harm that belief in God should be 


84 FANTINE 


the philosophy of the populace, much in the same way as a 
goose stuffed with chestnuts is the truffled turkey of the 
poor.” 





CHAPTER IX 
THE BROTHER DESORIBED BY THE SISTER 


ve give an idea of the domestic life of the bishop of 

D » and the way in which these two saintly 
women subordinated their actions, their thoughts, even their 
feminine instincts, which were easily startled, to the habits 
and intentions of the bishop, even before he expressed them 
in words, we cannot do better than copy here a letter from 
Mlle. Baptistine to the Vicomtesse de Boischevron, her friend 
from childhood. ‘This letter is in our possession. 





D——, 16th Dec., 18—. 

My Dear Mapame,— Not a day passes in which we do not talk about 
you. That is our regular custom, but there is an extra reason at present. 
Just imagine that, while washing and dusting the ceilings and walls, 
Madame Magloire made a discovery, and now our two rooms papered 
with old whitewashed paper would not disgrace a castle like yours. 
Madame Magloire has torn off all the paper, and there are things under 
it. My sitting-room, in which there was no furniture, and in which we 
used to hang the clothes to dry, is fifteen feet high, eighteen wide, and 
has a ceiling which was once painted and gilded, and rafters as in your 
house. It was covered with canvas when this house was an hospital. 
But you should see my bedroom; Madanie Magloire has discovered, 
under at least ten layers of paper, paintings which, though not very 
good, are tolerable. The subject is Telemachus being knighted by Mi- 
nerva, and again in the gardens,—I forget their names, but where the 
Roman ladies only went for a single night. How can I tell you? I 
have Romans and Roman ladies [here an illegible word], and the whole 
train. Madame Magloire has cleaned it all off. This summer she in- 
tends to repair a little damage, revarnish it all, and my bedroom will 
be a real museum. She has also found in a corner of the garret two 
old-fashidned wooden pier-tables. They want twelve francs to regild 
them, but it is better to give that sum to the poor; besides, they are 
frightfully ugly, and I should prefer a round mahogany table. 

I am very happy, for my brother is so good; he gives all he has to 


FANTINE 35 


the sick and the poor, and we are often badly off. The country is hard 
in winter, and something must be done for those who are in want. We 
are pretty well lighted and warmed; and, as you can see, that is a great 
comfort. My brother has peculiar habits; when he does talk, he says 
“that a bishop should be so.” Just imagine that the house door is never 
locked: any one who likes can come in, and is at once in my brother’s 
room. He fears nothing, not even at night; and he says that is his 
sort of bravery. He does not wish me or Madame Magloire to feel 
alarmed for him; he exposes himself to all kinds of dangers, and does 
not wish us to appear even to notice it. You must know him to under- 
stand him. He goes out in the rain, he wades through the water, and 
travels in winter. He is not afraid of darkness, suspicious roads, or 
encounters. Last year he went all alone into a country of robbers, for 
he would not take us with him. He stayed away a whole fortnight, and 
folk thought him dead, but he came back all right, and said, “ Here’s 
the way in which I was robbed,” and he opened a chest full of the 
treasures of Embrun cathedral, which the robbers had given him. That 
time I could not refrain from scolding him a little, but was careful only 
to speak when the wheels made a noise, so that no one could hear me. 

At first I said to myself, “There is no danger that checks him, and 
it is terrible;” but now I have grown accustomed to it. I make Madame 
Magloire a sign not to oppose him, and he risks his life as he pleases. 
I carry off Magloire, go to my bedroom, pray for him, and fall asleep. 
I am easy because I know that if any harm happened to him it would 
be the death of me. I shall go to heaven with my brother and my 
bishop. Madame Magloire had greater difficulty than myself in accus- 
toming herself to what she calls his imprudence, but now she has 
learned to put up with it. We both pray; we are terrified together, and 
fall asleep. If the foul Fiend were to enter the house, no one would 
try to stop him, and after all, what have we to fear in this house? 
There is always some one with us Who is stronger than we; the demon 
may pass through, but our Lord dwells in it. That is enough for me, 
and my brother no longer has to say a word to me. I understand him 
without his speaking, and we leave ourselves in the hands of Providence, 
for that is the way in which you must behave to a man who has grandeur 
of soul. 

I have asked my brother about the information you wish concerning 
the De Faux family. You are aware that he knows everything, and 
what a memory he has, for he is still a good royalist. It is really a 
very old Norman family belonging to the generalship of Caen. Five 
hundred years ago there were a Raoul, a Jean, and a Thomas de Faux, 
who were gentlemen, and one of them lord of Rochefort. The last was 
Guy Etienne Alexandre, who was major-general, and something in the 
Brittany Light Horse: his daughter, Maria Louisa, married Adrian 
Charles de Gramont, son of Duke Louis de Gramont, peer of France, 
colonel of the French guards, and lieutenant-general in the army. The 
name is written Faux, Faug, and Faouq. 

My dear madame, recommend us to the prayers of your holy relative, 
the cardinal. As for your dear Sylvanie, she does well not to waste 
the few moments she passes by your side in writing to me. She is 
well, works according to your wishes, and loves me still; that is all I 


36 FANTINE 


desire. Her gift sent through you reached me safely, and I am de- 
lighted with it. My health is not bad, and yet I grow thinner every 
day. Good-by, my paper is running out and compels me to break off. 
A thousand kind regards from your 

BaPrisTINE. 


P. S. Your little nephew is delightful: do you know that he is nearly 
five years of age? Yesterday he saw a horse pass with knee-caps on, 
and he said, “ What has he got on his knees?” He is such a dear child. 
His little brother drags an old broom about the room like a coach, and 
cries, “ Hi, hi!” 


As may be seen from this letter, the two women managed 
to fall in with the bishop’s ways, with the genius peculiar to 
woman, who comprehends man better than he does himself. 
The bishop of D beneath the candid, gentle air which 
never failed him, at times did grand, bold, and magnificent 
things, without even appearing to suspect the fact. They 
trembled, but let him alone. At times Madame Magloire 
would hazard a remonstrance beforehand, but never during 
or after the deed. They never troubled him either by word 
or sign when he had once begun an affair. At certain mo- 
ments, without his mentioning the fact, or perhaps when he 
was not conscious of it, so perfect was his simplicity, they 
vaguely felt that he was acting episcopally, and at such 
times they were only two shadows in the house. ‘They served 
him passively, and if obedience consisted in disappearing, 
they disappeared. ‘They knew, with admirable intuitive deli- 
cacy, that certain attentions might vex him, and _ hence, 
though they might believe him in peril, they understood, I 
will not say his thoughts, but his nature, and no longer 
watched over him. ‘They intrusted him to God. Moreover, 
Baptistine said, as we have just read, that her brother’s 
death would be her death. Madame Magloire did not say 
so, but she knew it. 





FANTINE 37 


CHAPTER X 
THE BISHOP FACES A STRANGE LIGHT 


T a period rather later than the date of the letter just 
quoted, he did a thing which the whole town declared 
to be even more venturesome than his trip in the mountains 
among the bandits. A man lived alone in the country near 
D This man— let us out with the great word at 
once!— was an ex-Conventionalist, of the name of G : 
People talked about him in the little world of D with 
a species of horror. A Conventionalist, only think of that! 
Those men existed at the time when people “ thou-ed ” one 
another and were called citizens. This man was almost a 
monster ; he had not voted for the king’s death, but had done 
all but that, and was a quasi-regicide. How was it that this 
man had not been tried by court-martial, on the return of the 
legitimate princes? ‘They need not have cut his head off, for 
clemency is all right and proper, but banishment for life 
would have made an example of him, and so on. Moreover, 
he was an atheist, like all those men. It was the gossip of 
geese around a vulture. 

And was this G a vulture? Yes, if he might be 
judged by the element of ferocity in his solitude. As he 
had not voted for the king’s death, he was not included in 
the decree of exile, and was able to remain in France. He 
lived about three miles from the town, far from any village, 
any road, in a nook of a very wild valley. He had there, so 
it was said, a field, a hut, a den. He had no neighbours, 
not even passers-by; since he had lived in the valley the 
path leading to it had become overgrown with grass. Peo- 
ple talked of the spot as of the hangman’s house. Yet the 
bishop thought of it, and from time to time gazed at a spot 
on the horizon where a clump of trees marked the old Con- 














38 FANTINE 


ventionalist’s valley and said, “ There is a lonely soul there; ” 
and he added in his own heart, ‘* I owe him a visit.”’ 

But, let us confess it, this idea, at the first blush quite nat- 
ural, after a moment’s reflection seemed strange and impos- 
sible, almost repulsive. For in his heart he shared the gen- 
eral impression, and the Conventionalist insensibly inspired 
him, with that feeling which borders on hate, and which is 
so well expressed by the word aversion. 

Still the shepherd should not shun a scabby sheep; but, 
then, what a sheep! The good bishop was perplexed; some- 
times he started in that direction, but turned back. One day 
a rumour spread in the town that a young shepherd who 
waited on G in his den had come to fetch a doctor. The 
old villain was dying; paralysis had attacked him, and he 
could not last out the night. ‘* Thank God!” some added. 

The bishop took his stick, put on his cloak to hide his well- 
worn cassock, as well as to protect him against the evening 
breeze which would soon blow, and set forth. The sun had 
almost touched the horizon when the bishop reached the ex- 
communicated spot. He saw with a certain beating of the 
heart that he was close to the wild beast’s den. He strode 
across a ditch, clambered over a hedge, entered a neglected 
garden, and suddenly perceived the cavern behind some bram- 
bles. It was a low, poor-looking hut, small and clean, with 
a vine nailed over the front. 

Before the door a white-haired old man, seated in a shabby 
wheel-chair, was smiling in the sun. By his side stood the 
shepherd-boy, who handed him a pot of milk. While the 
bishop was looking at him the old man spoke. ‘“ Thanks,” 
he said, “I want nothing more,” and his smiling face was 
turned from the sun to the boy. 

The bishop stepped forward, and at the sound of his foot- 
steps the man turned his head, and his face expressed as 
much surprise as it is possible to feel at the close of a long 
life. 

** You are the first person who has come to see me since I 
have lived here,” he said. ‘‘ Who may you be, sir? ” 





FANTINE 39 


The bishop answered, “ My name is Bienvenu Myriel.” 

“JT have heard that name. Are you not he whom the 
peasants call my Lord Welcome? ” 

66 I am.” 

The old man continued, with a half-smile, * Then you are 
my bishop? ” 

66 Yes.”’ 

“* Come in, sir.”’ 

The Conventionalist offered his hand to the bishop, but the 
bishop did not take it; he merely said,— 

‘*T am pleased to see that I was misinformed. You cer- 
tainly do not look ill.” 

“¢ I shall soon be cured, sir,”’ said the old man; then after 
a pause he added, “I shall die in three hours. I am a bit 
of a physician, and know in what way the last hour comes. 
Yesterday, only my feet were cold; to-day the chill reached 
my knees; now I can feel it ascending to my waist, and 
when it reaches the heart, I shall stop. The sun is glorious, 
is it not? JI had myself wheeled out here to take a farewell 
glance at things. You can talk to me, for it does not weary 
me. You have done well to come and look at a dying man, 
for it is proper that there should be witnesses. People have 
their fancies; and I should have liked to last till dawn. ,But 
I know that I can hardly live three hours. It will be night; 
but, after all, what matter? Dying is a simple affair, and 
does not require daylight. Be it so; I will die by star- 
hight.” 

Then he turned to the lad:— 

“Go to bed. You sat up last night, and must be tired.” 

The boy went into the cabin; the old man followed him 
with his eyes, and added, as if speaking to himself :-— 

“While he sleeps I shall die; the two slumbers can keep 
each other company.” 

The bishop was not so moved as we might imagine he 
would be. He did not think that he saw God in this way 
of dying; and — let us out with it, as the small contradic- 
tions of great hearts must also be revealed — he, who at 


40 FANTINE 


times laughed so heartily at his grandeur, was somewhat an- 
noyed at not being called my lord, and was almost tempted 
to retort, citizen. He felt an inclination for coarse familiar- 
ity, common enough to doctors and priests, but to which he 
was not accustomed. This man, after all, this Convention- 
alist, this representative of the people, had been a mighty 
one of the earth; for the first time in his life, perhaps, ‘the 
bishop felt disposed to sternness. 

The republican, in the mean while, regarded him with mod- 
est cordiality, in which, perhaps, could be traced that hu- 
mility which is so becoming in a man who is on the point of 
returning to the dust. 

The bishop, on his side, though he generally guarded 
against curiosity, which according to him was akin to insult, 
could not refrain from examining the Conventionalist with 
an attention which, as it did not emanate from sympathy, 
would have pricked his conscience in the case of any other 
man. ‘The Conventionalist produced the effect upon him of 
being beyond the pale of the law, even the law of charity. 
G , calm, almost upright, and possessing a sonorous 
voice, was one of those grand octogenarians who are the 
amazement of the physiologist. ‘The Revolution possessed 
many such men, proportioned to the age. This man seemed 
ready to submit to any proof, and, though so near his end, 
he retained all the signs of health. There was something 
calculated to disconcert death in his clear glance, his firm 
tone, and the robust movement of his shoulders. Azrael, the 
Mohammedan angel of the tomb, would have turned back, 
fancying that he had mistaken the door. G seemed 
to be dying because he wished to do so; there was freedom 
in his agony; and his legs alone, by which the shadows 
clutched him, were motionless. While the feet were dead and 
cold, the head lived with all the power of life, and appeared 
in full light. G at this awful moment resembled the 
king in the Oriental legend,— flesh above and marble below. 
The bishop sat down on a stone and began, rather ab- 
ruptly :-— 











FANTINE 41 


“TI congratulate you,” he said, in a tone of reprimand; 
*‘ at least you did not vote the king’s death.” 

The republican did not seem to notice the covert bitterness 
of the words, at least; he replied, without a smile: 

**Do not congratulate me, sir; I voted the death of the 
tyrant.” It was the accent of austerity opposed to that of 
sternness. 

** What do you mean?” replied the bishop. 

**IT mean that man has a tyrant,— Ignorance; and I voted 
for the death of that tyrant which engendered royalty, which 
is false authority, while knowledge is true authority. Man 
must be governed by knowledge only.” 

‘* And by his conscience,”’ the bishop added. 

“That is the same thing. Conscience is the amount of 
innate knowledge which we have.” 

Monseigneur Bienvenu listened in some surprise to this 
language, which was very novel to him. The republican con- 
tinued :— 

** As for Louis XVI., I said, ‘No.’ I do not believe that 
I have the right to kill a man, but I feel it my duty to ex- 
terminate a tyrant; and I voted for the death of the tyrant, 
—— that is to say, to put an end to the prostitution of women; 
an end to the slavery of men; and an end to night for chil- 
dren. In voting for the republic, I voted for all this: I 
voted for fraternity, concord, the Dawn! I aided in the 
overthrow of errors and prejudices; and such an overthrow 
produces light. We hurled down the old world; and the old 
world, that vessel of wretchedness, being poured over the 
human race, became an urn of joy.” 

** Mingled joy,” said the bishop. 

“You might call it troubled joy; and now, after that 
fatal return of the past, which is called 1814, a departed joy. 
Alas! the work was incomplete, I grant; we demolished the 
ancient rule in facts, but were not able to suppress it com- 
pletely in ideas. It is not enough to destroy abuses, but 
morals must also be modified. ‘Though the mill no longer 
exists, the wind still blows.” 


~ 


42 FANTINE 


“You demolished; it may be useful, but I distrust a 
demolition complicated with passion.” 

‘“‘ Right has its passion, sir; and that passion is an element 
of progress. No matter what may be said, the French Revo- 
lution is the most powerful step taken by the human race 
since the advent of Christ. It may be incomplete, but it was 
sublime. It softened spirits, it calmed, appeased, and en- 
lightened, and it spread civilization over the world. The 
French Revolution was good, for it was the consecration of 
humanity.” 

The bishop could not refrain from muttering :-— 

“Yes? °93!” 

The republican drew himself up with almost mournful 
solemnity, and shouted, as well as a dying man could 
shout : — 

“¢ Ah, there we have it! 93! I expected that. A cloud 
had been collecting for fifteen hundred years, and at the end 
of that period it burst; you condemn the thunder-bolt.” 

The bishop, without perhaps confessing it, felt that the 
blow had gone home; still he put a good face on the matter, 
and answered :— 

“The judge speaks in the name of justice; the priest 
speaks in that of pity, which is only a higher form of justice. 
A thunder-bolt must not err.” 

And he added as he looked fixedly at the Conventionalist :— 

‘And Louis XVII.? ” 

The republican stretched forth his hand and seized the 
bishop’s arm. 

“Louis XVII. Let us consider. For whom do you 
weep? For the innocent child? In that case I weep with 
you. For the royal child? In that case I must ask leave to 
reflect. To me, the brother of Cartouche, an innocent lad 
hung up by the armpits in the Place de Gréve until death 
ensued, for the sole crime of being Cartouche’s brother, is 
no less painful than the grandson of Louis XV., the innocent 
boy martyred in the Temple Tower for the sole crime of 
being the grandson of Louis XV.” 


FANTINE 43 


“TI do not like such an association of names, sir,” said the 
bishop. 

“Louis XV.? Cartouche? On behalf of which do you 
protest? ” 

There was a moment’s silence; the bishop almost regretted 
having come, and yet felt himself vaguely and strangely 
moved. The Conventionalist continued :— 

*¢ Ah! sir priest, you do not like the crudities of truth, but 
Christ loved them; he took a scourge and swept the temple. 
His lightning lash was a rough discourser of truths. When 
he exclaimed, ‘ Suffer little children to come unto me,’ he 
made no distinction among them. He made no difference 
between the dauphin of Barabbas and the dauphin of Herod. 
Innocence is its own crown, and does not require to be a high- 
ness; it is as august in rags as when crowned with the lilies 
of France.” 

“That is true?” said the bishop in a low voice. 

“You named Louis XVII.,” the Conventionalist resumed ; 
*“¢ let us understand each other. Shall we weep for all the in- 
nocents, martyrs, and children of the lowest as of the highest 
rank? I am with you there; but, as I said, in that case we 
must go back beyond 93, and our tears must begin before 
Louis XVII. I will weep over the children of kings with 
you, provided that you weep with me over the children of 
the people.” 

“‘ I weep for all,” said the bishop. 

“ Equally!” G exclaimed; “ and if the balance must 
incline, let it be on the side of the people, as they have 
suffered longer.” 

There was again a silence, which the republican broke. He 
raised himself on his elbow, pinched his cheek between his 
thumb and forefinger, as a man does mechanically when he is 
interrogating and judging, and fixed on the bishop a gaze 
filled with the energy of approaching death. It was almost 
an explosion. | 

“Yes, sir; the people have been long-suffering. But let 
me ask why you come to question me about Louis XVII.? 





ds FANTINE 


I do not know you. Ever since I have been in this country 
I have lived here alone, never setting my foot across the thresh- 
old, and seeing no one but the boy who serves me. Your 
name, it is true, has vaguely reached me, and I am bound 
to say that it was uttered with affection; but that means 
nothing, for clever people have so many ways of making 
worthy, simple folk believe in them. By the bye, I did not 
hear the sound of your coach; you doubtless left it behind 
that clump of trees at the cross-roads. I do not know you, 
I say; you tell me that you are the bishop, but that teaches 
me nothing as to your moral character. In a word, I repeat 
my question, who are you? You are a bishop; that is to say, 
a prince of the Church, one of those gilded, escutcheoned an- 
nuitants, who have fat prebends,— the bishopric of D 
with fifteen thousand francs income, ten thousand francs in 
fees, or a total of twenty-five thousand francs,— who have 
kitchens, liveries, keep a good table, and eat water-fowl on 
Friday; who go about with lackeys before and behind, in a 
gilded coach; who have palaces and drive a carriage, in the 
name of the Saviour, who walked barefoot! You are a prel- 
ate; you have, like all the rest, income, palace, horses, valets, 
a good table, and, like the rest, you enjoy them. That is all 
very well, but it says either too much or too little; it does not 
enlighten me as to your intrinsic and essential value when you 
come with the probable intention of bringing me wisdom. To 
whom do I speak,— who are you? ” 

The bishop bowed his head, and answered, “ I am a worm.” 

** A worm in a carriage!” growled the republican. 

It was his turn to be haughty, the bishop’s to be humble; 
the latter continued gently :— 

“ Be it so, sir. But explain to me how my coach, which 
is a little way off behind the trees, my good table, and the 
water-fowl I eat on Friday, my palace, my income, and my 
footmen, prove that pity is not a virtue, that clemency is not 
a duty, and that 93 was not inexorable.” 

The republican passed his hand over his forehead, as if to 
remove a cloud, | 





FANTINE A5 


** Before answering you,” he said, “ I must ask you to for- 
give me. I was in the wrong, sir, for you are in my house 
and my guest. You discuss my ideas, and it becomes me to 
confine myself to combating your arguments. Your wealth 
and enjoyments are advantages which I have over you in the 
debate, but courtesy bids me not employ them. I promise 
not to do so again.” 

*¢ TI thank you,” said the bishop. 

G resumed: ‘* Let us return to the explanation you 
asked of me. Where were we? What was it you said, that 
793 was inexorable? ” 

‘Yes, inexorable,” the bishop said: ** what do you think 
of Marat clapping his hands at the guillotine? ” 

** What do you think of Bossuet singing a Te Deum over 
the Dragonnades? ” | 

The retort was harsh, but it went to its mark with the di- 
rectness of arapier. The bishop started, and could not parry 
it; but he was hurt by this way of mentioning Bossuet. The 
best minds have their fetishes, and at times feel vaguely 
wounded by any want of respect on the part of logic. The 
Conventionalist was beginning to gasp; that asthma which is 
mingled with the last breath affected his voice; still he re- 
tained perfect lucidity of soul in his eyes. He continued :-— 

** Let us say a few words more on this head. Aside from 
the Revolution, which, taken as a whole, is an immense hu- 
man affirmation, ’93, alas, is a rejoinder. You consider it 
inexorable, but what was the whole monarchy? Carrier is 
a bandit, but what name do you give to Montrevel? Fou- 
quier Tainville is a scoundrel, but what is your opinion of 
Lamoignon-Baville? Maillard is frightful, but what of 
Saulx-Tavannes, if you please? Father Duchéne is ferocious, 
but what epithet will you allow me for Pére Letellier? Jour- 
dan Coupe-Téte is a monster, but less so than the Marquis de 
Louvois. I pity Marie Antoinette, archduchess and queen; 
but I also pity the poor Huguenot woman who, in 1685, un- 
der Louis the Great, while suckling her child, was fastened, 
naked to the waist, to a stake, while her infant was held at a 





46 FANTINI 


distance. Her breast was swollen with milk, her heart with 
agony; the babe, hungry and pale, saw that breast and 
screamed for it, and the hangman said to the wife, mother, 
and nurse, ‘ Abjure!’ giving her her choice between the death 
of her child and the death of her conscience. What do you 
say of this punishment of Tantalus applied to a woman? 
Remember this, sir, the French Revolution had its reasons, and 
its wrath will be absolved by the future. Its result is a better 
world; and a caress for the human race issues from its most 
terrible blows. I must stop, for the game is all in my favour, 
— besides, I am dying.” 

And ceasing to regard the bishop, the republican completed 
his thought with the following calm words :— 

‘“‘ Yes, the brutalities of progress are called revolutions, but 
when they are over, this fact is recognized: the human race 
has been chastised, but it has advanced.” 

The republican did not suspect that he had carried in turn 
every one of the bishop’s inmost intrenchments. One still re- 
mained, however, and from this, the last resource of his re- 
sistance, came this remark, in which almost all the harshness 
of the beginning was apparent. 

‘“‘ Progress must believe in God; and the good cannot have 
impious servants. A man who is an atheist is a bad guide 
for the human race.” 

The ex-representative of the people did not reply. He 
trembled, looked up to heaven, and a tear slowly gathered in 
his eye. When the lid was full the tear ran down his livid 
cheek, and he said in a low, tremulous voice, as if to him- 
self :-— 

“* Oh, thou! oh, ideal! thou alone existest ! ” 

The bishop felt an indescribable shock; after a pause the 
old man raised a finger to heaven, and said,— 

“The infinite is. It is there. If the infinite had no ego, 
the ego would be its limit; 1t would not be infinite,— in other 
words, it would not exist. But it is. Hence it has an ego. 
This ego of the infinite is God.” 

The dying man uttered these words in a loud voice, and 


FANTINE 47 


with a shudder of ecstasy, as if he saw some one. When he 
had spoken, his eyes closed, for the effort had exhausted him. 
It was evident that he had lived in one minute the few hours 
left him. The supreme moment was at hand. The bishop 
understood it; he had come hither as a priest, and had grad- 
ually passed from extreme coldness to extreme emotion; he 
gazed at those closed eyes; he took the wrinkled, chilly hand 
and bent over the dying man. 

“This hour is God’s. Would you not consider it matter 
of regret if we had met in vain? ” 

The republican opened his eyes; a gravity which suggested 
the shadow of death was imprinted on his countenance. 

‘“‘ Sir,” he said, with a slowness produced perhaps more by 
the dignity of his soul than by failing of his strength, “ I 
have spent my life in meditation, contemplation, and study. 
I was sixty years of age when my country summoned me, and 
bade me busy myself with its affairs. I obeyed. There were 
abuses, and I combated them; tyranny, and I destroyed it; 
rights and principles, and I proclaimed and confessed them ; 
our territory was invaded, and I defended it; France was 
menaced, and I offered her my breast. I was not rich, and I 
am poor. I was one of the masters of the State; the treasury 
vaults were so filled with specie that we were forced to shore 
up the walls, which were ready to burst beneath the weight of 
gold and silver, but I dined in the Rue de |’Arbre Sec, at two- 
and-twenty sous a head. I succoured the oppressed; I re- 
lieved the suffering. I tore up the altar-cloth, it is true; but 
it was to stanch the wounds of the country. I ever supported 
the onward march of the human race toward light, and I at 
times resisted pitiless progress. When opportunity served, I 
protected my adversaries,— men of your class. And there is 
at Peteghem in Flanders, on the same site where the Meroving- 
ian kings had their summer palace, a Monastery of Urbanists, 
the Abbey of St. Claire en Beaulieu, which I saved in 1793. 
I did my duty according to my strength, and what good I 
could. After.which I was driven out, tracked, pursued, per- 
secuted, maligned, mocked, spat upon, accursed, and pro- 


48 FANTINE 


scribed. For many years I, with my white hairs, have felt 
that many men believed they had a right to despise me. My 
face has been held accursed by the poor ignorant mob; and, 
while hating no one, I accepted the isolation of hatred. Now 
I am eighty-six, and on the point of death; what have you 
come to ask of me? ” 

“ Your blessing!” said the bishop, and knelt down. When 
the bishop raised his head again, the Conventionalist’s counte- _ 
nance had become august: he had expired. The bishop re- 
turned home absorbed in strange thoughts, and spent the 
whole night in prayer. On the morrow, the curious tried to 
make him talk about G the republican, but he only 
pointed to heaven. From this moment his tenderness and 
fraternity for the little ones and the suffering were redoubled. 

Any allusion to “ that old villain. of a G ”? threw him 
into a singular revery ; no one could say that the passing of 
that spirit before his, and the reflection that great conscience 
cast upon his, had not something to do with his approach to 
perfection. This “ pastoral visit” naturally created a stir | 
among the small local coteries. 

Was it a bishop’s place to visit the death-bed of such a 
man? It was plain that he had no conversion to hope for, 
for all these revolutionists are backsliders! Then, why go! 
What was there to be seen? He must have been very anxious 
to see the devil carry off a soul. 

One day a dowager, of the impertinent sort which believes 
itself witty, said to him: ‘‘ Sir, people are asking when your 
Eminence will receive the red cap.” ‘‘ Oh, oh! ”? answered the 
bishop, “‘ that is an ominous colour. Fortunately those who 
despise it in a cap venerate it in a hat.” 











a © OUT blessing” said the bishop, and knelt down. When the bishop 
raised his head again, the conventionalist—had expired.” 


Les Miserables. Fantine: Page 48. 


~~ Me ieee eo ™, w/t ' . 


ie ee 7 ' - : | 
ind aa ee : : 


—— Fy oe ee pe. : EOP C8, ean ee eae Se Bae th Se ee La rae tee 4 
2 we ne : bs it a ee aoe 7 





FANTINE | 49 


CHAPTER XI 
A RESTRICTION 


E should run a strong risk of making a mistake were 
we to conclude from this that Monseigneur Bienvenu 
was a “ philosophical bishop,” or ‘‘ a patriotic priest.” His 
meeting, which might almost be called his conjunction, with 
the Conventionalist G » produced in him a sort of amaze-. 
ment, which made him more gentle than ever. That was all. 
Though he was anything rather than a politician, this is 
perhaps the place to indicate briefly his attitude toward the 
events of that period, supposing that he had ever dreamed of 
having an attitude. We will, therefore, go back a few years. 
A short time after M. Myriel’s elevation to the episcopate, the 
Emperor made him a baron, simultaneously with some other 
bishops. The arrest of the Pope took place, as is well known, 
on the night of July 5, 1809; at which time M. Myriel was 
called by Napoleon to the synod of French and Italian bishops 
convened at Paris. This synod was held at Notre-Dame, and 
assembled for the first time on June 15, 1811, under the presi- 
dency of Cardinal Fesch. M. Myriel was one of the ninety- 
five bishops convened, but he was only present at one session 
and three or four private conferences. As bishop of a moun- 
tain diocese, living so near to nature in rusticity and poverty, 
it seems that he introduced among these eminent personages 
ideas which changed the temperature of the assembly. He 
very soon went back to D , and when questioned about 
this hurried return he replied, ‘“‘ I embarrassed them. The 
fresh air came in with me, and I produced the effect of an 
open door upon them.” On another occasion he said, What 
would you have? ‘Those gentlemen are princes while I am 
only a poor peasant bishop.” 
The fact is, that he displeased them. Among other strange 
page he let slip the following remarks one evening when 








50 FANTINE 


he was visiting one of his most influential colleagues: ‘ What 
fine clocks! What splendid carpets! What magnificent liv- 
eries! You must find all that very troublesome? Oh! I 
should not like to have such superfluities crying incessantly in 
my ears, ‘ There are people who are hungry; there are people 
who are cold; there are poor, there are poor!’ ” 

Let us remark parenthetically that a hatred of luxury is 
not an intelligent hatred, for it implies a hatred of the arts. 
Still, in churchmen any luxury beyond that connected with 
their sacred office is wrong; for it seems to reveal habits which 
are not truly charitable. An opulent priest 1s a paradox, for 
he is bound to live with the poor. Now, can a man inces- 
santly, both night and day, come in contact with distress, mis- 
fortune, and want, without having about him a hittle of that 
holy wretchedness, like the dust of toil? Can we imagine a 
man sitting close to a stove and not feeling hot? Can we 
imagine a workman constantly toiling at a furnace, and hav- 
ing neither a hair burned, a nail blackened, nor a drop of 
perspiration, nor a grain of soot on his face? The first proof 
of charity in a priest, in a bishop especially, is poverty. ‘This 
was, doubtless, the opinion of the bishop of D : 

We must not suppose, however, that he shared what we 
might call the “* ideas of the age ” on certain delicate points. 
He took little part in the theological questions of the mo- 
ment, and was silent in regard to points wherein Church and 
State are implicated; but, had he been greatly pressed, we 
fancy he would have been found to be ultramontane rather 
than Gallican. As we are drawing a portrait, and do not 
wish to conceal anything, we are forced to add that he was 
frigid toward Napoleon in his decline. From 1813, he gave 
his adherence to or applauded all hostile demonstrations; he 
refused to see him on his return from Elba, and abstained from 
ordering public prayers for the Emperor during the hundred 
days. 

Beside his sister, Mlle. Baptistine, he had two brothers, 
one a general, the other a prefect. He wrote rather fre- 
quently to both of them. For some time he owed the former 





FANTINE 51 


a grudge, because the general, who at the time of the landing 
at Cannes held a command in Provence, put himself at the 
head of twelve hundred men and pursued the Emperor as if 
he wished to let him escape. His correspondence with the 
other brother, the ex-prefect, a worthy, honest man, who lived 
quietly at Paris, was more affectionate. 

Monseigneur Bienvenu, therefore, also had his hour of 
partisan spirit, his hour of bitterness, his cloud. The shadow 
of the passions of the moment fell athwart this great and gen- 
tle mind, which was occupied by things eternal. Certainly, 
such a man would have done well to have no political opinions. 
Pray let there be no mistake as to our meaning; we do not 
confound what are called “ political opinions” with grand 
aspirations for progress,— with that sublime patriotic, demo- 
cratic and human faith which in our days must be the founda- 
tion of all generous intelligence. Without entering into ques- 
tions which only indirectly affect the subject of this book, we 
say it would have been better had Monseigneur Bienvenu not - 
been a royalist, and if his eye had not turned away, even for 
a moment, from that serene contemplation in which the three 
pure lights of Truth, Justice, and Charity are seen beaming 
above the fictions and hatreds of this world, and above the 
stormy ebb and flow of human affairs. 

While allowing that God had not created Monseigneur 
Bienvenu for political functions, we could have understood 
and admired a protest in the name of justice and liberty, a 
haughty opposition, and a perilous and just resistance to the 
omnipotent Napoleon. But conduct which pleases us toward 
those who are rising, pleases us less toward those who are fall- 
ing. We only like the contest so long as there is danger; 
and, in any case, the combatants of the first alone have a right 
to be the exterminators of the last. A man who has not been 
an obstinate accuser in prosperity must be silent when the 
crash comes; the denouncer of success is the sole legitimate 
judge of the fall. For our part, when Providence inter- 
venes and strikes, we let it work. 1812 begins to disarm us. 
In 1813 the cowardly rupture of silence by the taciturn legis- 


52 FANTINE 


lative corps, emboldened by catastrophes, could only arouse 
indignation; it was wrong to applaud it. In 1814, in the 
presence of the traitor marshals, in the presence of that sen- 
ate, which passed from one atrocity to another, insulting after 
deifying, and at the sight of idolaters deserting and spitting 
on their idol, it was a duty to turn aside one’s head. In 1815, 
as supreme disasters were in the air, when France shuddered 
at their sinister approach, when Waterloo, already opening be- 
fore Napoleon, could be vaguely distinguished, the mournful 
acclamation awarded by the army and the people to the man 
condemned by destiny had nothing laughable about it, and — 
leaving the despot out of the question—a heart like the 
bishop of D ’s should have understood the august and 
affecting features in this close embrace between a great nation 
and a great man on the verge of an abyss. 

With this exception, the bishop was in all things just, true, 
equitable, intelligent, humble, and dignified; beneficent and 
benevolent, which is another form of beneficence. He was a 
priest, a sage, and a man. Even in the political opinions 
with which we have reproached him, and which we are inclined 
to judge almost severely, we are bound to add that he was 
tolerant and facile-— more so perhaps than the writer of these 
lines. The porter of the Town Hall had been appointed by 
the Emperor; he was an ex-non-commissioned officer of the old 
guard, a legionary of Austerlitz, and as Bonapartist as the 
eagle. This poor fellow now and then made thoughtless re- 
marks, which the law of that day qualified as seditious. From 
the moment that the Imperial profile disappeared from the 
Legion of Honour, he never put on his uniform, that he might 
not be obliged to bear his cross, as he said. He had himself 
devoutly removed the Imperial effigy from the cross which 
Napoleon had given him with his own hands, and, though this 
made a hole, he would not put anything in its place. ‘‘ Sooner 
die,” he would say, “than wear three toads on my heart.” 
He was fond of ridiculing Louis XVIII. aloud. ‘ The gouty 
old fellow with his English gaiters, let him be off to Prussia 
with that queue of his.” It delighted him thus to combine 





FANTINE 58 


in one imprecation the two things he hated most,— England 
and Prussia. He went on thus till he lost his place, and then 
he was left to starve in the street with wife and children. 
The bishop sent for him, gave him a gentle lecture, and made 
him beadle in the cathedral. 

In nine years, by dint of his good deeds and gentle man- 
ners, Monseigneur Bienvenu had filled the town of D 
with a sort of tender and filial reverence. Even his conduct 
to Napoleon was accepted, and, as it were, tacitly pardoned, 
by the people,— a good, but weakly flock of sheep, who adored 
their Emperor, but loved their bishop. 





CHAPTER XII 
MONSEIGNEUR BIENVENU’S SOLITUDE 


BISHOP is nearly always surrounded by a squadron of 
little priests, as a general is by a swarm of young 
officers. They are what that delightful Saint Francis de 
Sales calls somewhere “ callow priests.” Every career has 
its aspirants, who follow in the train of those who have 
reached the goal; there is no power without its following, no 
fortune without its court,— the seekers for a future buzz 
around the splendid present. Every metropolitan has his 
staff ; every bishop who has any influence has his patrol of 
Seminarist Cherubim, who go the rounds, maintain order in 
the episcopal palace, and mount guard round my lord’s smile. 
Pleasing a bishop is a foot in the stirrup for a subdiaconate ; 
after all, a man must make his way, and apostles do not despise 
a canonry. 

Just as there are “ big-wigs,” elsewhere, there are mitres 
in the Church. They are the bishops who stand well at court, 
who are rich, well endowed, clever, favourites of society, who 
doubtless know how to pray, but also how to beg, not scrupu- 


&gt; 


54 FANTINE 


lous about making a whole diocese dance attendance on them, 
connecting links between the sacristy and diplomacy, who are 
abbés rather than priests, prelates rather than bishops. 
Happy the man who approaches them! As they stand in 
good credit, they shower around them, on the assiduous and 
the favoured, and on all the youth who know the art of 
pleasing, fat livings, prebendaries, archdeaconries, chaplain- 
cies, and cathedral appointments, while awaiting Episcopal 
honours. While themselves advancing, they cause their sa- 
tellites to progress also, and it is an entire solar system 
moving onward. ‘Their beams throw a purple hue over their 
followers, and their prosperity is showered over the actors 
behind the scenes in nice little bits of promotion. The larger 
the patron’s diocese, the larger is the cure the favourite ob- 
tains. And then there is Rome. A bishop who contrives to 
become an archbishop, an archbishop who manages to become 
a cardinal, takes you with him as Conclavist; you enter the 
court of papal jurisdiction, you receive the pallium, you are 
auditor, papal chamberlain, monsignore; and from highness 
to eminence there is but a step, and between eminence and 
holiness there is only the smoke of a ballot. Every cassock 
may dream of the tiara. In our day the priest is the only 
man who can regularly become a king, and whata king! ‘The 
supreme king! Hence what a hotbed of longings is a semi- 
nary! How many blushing choristers, how many youthful 
priests, have on their head Perrette’s pot of milk! How easy 
it is for ambition to call itself vocation! and perhaps it does 
so in good faith and in self-deception, devotee that it is. 
Monseigneur Bienvenu, humble, poor, and out of the world, 
was not counted among the big mitres. This was plain from 
the utter absence of young priests around him. We have seen 
that ‘he did not take” in Paris, and not an aspirant tried 
to graft himself on this solitary old man; no budding ambi- 
tion tried to put forth leaves in his shade. His canons and 
vicars were good old men, somewhat plebeian like him, walled 
up like him in this diocese which had no issue to the cardinal’s 
hat, and who resembled their bishop with this difference, that 


FANTINE 55 


they were done for while he was complete. The impossibility 
of growing great near Monseigneur Bienvenu was so well un- 
derstood, that the young men whom he ordained at once ob- 
tained letters commendatory to the archbishop of Aix, or 
Auch, and went off at score. For, after all, we repeat, men 
wish to be pushed. A saint who lives in a state of excessive 
self-denial is a dangerous neighbour. He might possibly com- 
municate to you by contagion an incurable poverty, a stiffen- 
ing of those joints which are useful for advancement, and, 
in a word, more renunciation than you care for; and such in- 
fectious virtue is shunned. Hence came the isolation of Mon- 
seigneur Bienvenu. We live in the midst of a gloomy so- 
ciety ; success,— such is the lesson which falls drop by drop 
from the corruption that overhangs us. 

Be it said in passing, success is a very hideous thing, and 
its feigned resemblance to merit deceives men. For the com- 
mon herd, success has almost the same profile as supremacy. 
Success, that Menechmus of talent, has one dupe: history. 
Tacitus and Juvenal alone grumble at it. In our days a 
philosophy which is almost official has entered the service of 
success, wears its livery, and waits in its antechamber. Suc- 
ceed,— that is the theory ; for prosperity presupposes capac- 
ity. .Win in the lottery and you are a clever man, for he who 
triumphs is revered. All you want is to be born under a for- 
tunate star. Have luck and you will have the rest; be fortu- 
nate and you will be thought a great man. Leaving out five 
or six immense exceptions, which form the lustre of an age, 
contemporary admiration is nothing but short sightedness. 
Gilding is gold; and it does you no harm to be the first comer, 
so long as you do come. The mob is an antiquated Narcissus, 
who adores himself and applauds the mob. That enormous 
ability by virtue of which a man is a Moses, A’schylus, Dante, 
Michael Angelo, or Napoleon, the multitude decrees broad- 
cast and by acclamation to any one who attains his object, 
no matter what it may be. Let a notary transform himself 
into a deputy; a false Corneille produce Tiridates; a eunuch 
contrive to possess a harem; a military Prudhomme acci- 


56 FAN TINE 


dentally gain the decisive battle of an age; an apothecary in- 
vent cardboard soles for the army of the Sambre and Meuse, 
and make out of the cardboard, sold for leather, an income 
of four hundred thousand francs a year; a pedler espouse 
usury, and put it to bed with seven or eight millions, of 
which he is the father and she the mother; a preacher become 
a bishop by his nasal twang; let the steward of a good family 
be so rich on leaving service that he is made chancellor of the 
exchequer,— and men will call it genius, just as they call 
Mousqueton’s face beauty and Claude’s muscles majesty. 
They confound the stars which the duck’s feet make in the 
soft mud of the puddle with the constellations of profundity. 





CHAPTER XIIT 


WHAT HE BELIEVED 





|e is not our business to gauge the bishop of D from 

an orthodox point of view. In the presence of such a 
soul we only feel inclined to respect. ‘The conscience of the 
just man must be accepted on his word; besides, certain na- 
tures granted, we admit the possibility of the development of 
all the beauties of human virtue in a creed differing from our 
own. What did he think of this dogma or that mystery? 
These heart-secrets are known only to the tomb, which souls 
enter in a state of nudity. What we are certain of is, that the 
difficulties of faith were never resolved into hypocrisy with 
him. It is impossible for the diamond to decay. He be- 
lieved as much as he possibly could, and would frequently 
exclaim, “I believe in the Father.”? He also derived from 
his good deeds that amount of satisfaction which suffices the 
conscience, and which whispers to a man, “ You are with 
God.” 

What we think it our duty to note, is that, outside and 


~~ 


FANTINE 57 


beyond his faith, he had an excess of love. It was through 
this, *‘ because he loved much,”? that he was considered vul- 
nerable by “ serious men,” “ grave persons,” and “ rational 
people,” those favourite phrases of our sad world, in which 
selfishness is under the guidance of pedantry. What was this 
excess of love? It was a serene benevolence, spreading over 
men, as we have already indicated, and on occasion extending 
even to things. He lived without disdain, and was indulgent 
to God’s creation. Every man, even the best, has within him 
an unreflecting harshness, which he reserves for animals; but 
the bishop of D had not this harshness, which is, how- 
ever, peculiar to many priests. He did not go so far as the 
Brahmin, but seemed to have meditated on the words of Ec- 
clesiastes, ‘* Who knoweth whither the soul of the animal 
goeth? ” An ugly appearance, instinctive deformity, did not 
trouble him or make him angry; he was moved, almost soft- 
ened, by it. It seemed as if he thoughtfully sought, beyond 
apparent life, for the cause, the explanation, or the excuse. 
He seemed at times to be asking God to commute these penal- 
ties. He examined without anger, and with the eye of a lin- 
guist deciphering a palimpsest, the amount of chaos which still 
exists in nature. This revery at times caused him to utter 
strange remarks. One morning he was in his garden and 
fancied himself alone; but his sister was walking behind, un- 
seen by him. He stopped and looked at something on the 
ground. It was a large, black, hairy, horrible spider. His 
sister heard him utter, “ Poor brute, it is not thy fault.” 
Why should we not repeat these almost divinely childish say- 
ings of goodness? ‘They may be puerile, but of such were 
the sublime puerilities of Saint Francis of Assisi and Marcus 
Aurelius. One day he sprained his ankle because he did not 
wish to crush an ant. 

Such was the way in which this just man lived. At times 
he fell asleep in his garden, and then nothing could be more 
venerable. Monseigneur Bienvenu was formerly, if we may 
believe the stories about his youth and even his manhood, 
a passionate, perhaps violent, man. His universal suavity was 





58 FANTINE 


less a natural instinct than the result of a strong conviction, 
which had filtered through the medium of life into his heart 
and slowly dropped into it thought by thought; for in a 
character, as in a rock, there may be water-holes. Such hol- 
lows, however, are ineffaceable, such formations indestructible. 
In 1815, as we think we have said, he reached his seventy- 
fifth year, but did not seem more than sixty. He was not 
tall, and had a tendency to stoutness, which he strove to com- 
bat by long walks; his step was firm, and he was but very 
slightly bent. But these are details from which we will not 
attempt to draw any conclusion, for Gregory XVI. at the age 
of eighty was erect and smiling, which did not prevent him 
from being a bad bishop. Monseigneur Bienvenu had what 
people call “a fine head,” but he was so amiable that his 
beauty was forgotten. When he talked with that infantile 
gayety which was one of his graces, you felt at your ease 
by his side, and joy seemed to emanate from his whole per- 
son. His fresh, ruddy complexion, and all his white teeth, 
which he had preserved, and displayed when he laughed, gave 
him that open, facile air which makes you say of a man, “‘ He 
is a good fellow,” and of an aged man, “ He is a fine man.” 
That, it will be remembered, was the effect he produced on 
Napoleon. At the first glance, and when you saw him for 
the first time, he was in reality only a fine man; but if you 
remained some hours in his company, and saw him absorbed 
in thought, he became gradually transfigured and assumed 
an imposing air; his broad and serious brow, already august 
through the white hair, became also august through medita- 
tion; majesty was evolved from the goodness. Though the 
latter did not cease to gleam, you felt the same sort of emo- 
tion as you would if you saw a smiling angel slowly unfold 
his wings without ceasing to smile. An unutterable respect 
gradually penetrated you and mounted to your heart, and 
you felt that you had before you one of those powerful, long- 
tried, and indulgent souls whose thoughts are so great that 
they cannot but be gentle. 

As we have seen, prayer, celebration of the Mass, alms- 


FANTINE 59 


giving, consoling the afflicted, tilling a patch of ground, fra- 
ternity, frugality, hospitality, self-denial, confidence, study, 
and work filled every day of his life. Filled is the exact 
word; and certainly the bishop’s day was full of good 
thoughts, good words, and good deeds. Still, 1t was not com- 
plete if cold or wet weather prevented him from spending 
an hour or two in the garden before going to bed and after 
the two women had retired. It seemed, as it were, a sort of 
rite of his to prepare himself for sleep by meditation, in the 
presence of the grand spectacle of the heavens by night. 
At times, even at an advanced hour, if the two women were 
not asleep, they heard him slowly pacing the walks. He 
was then alone with himself, contemplative, peaceful, adoring, 
comparing the serenity of his heart with that of the ether, 
affected in the darkness by the visible splendour of the con- 
stellations, and the invisible splendour of God, and opening 
his soul to thoughts which fall from the Unknown. At such 
moments, offering up his heart at the hour when nocturnal 
flowers offer up their perfumes, enkindled like a lamp amid 
the starry night, pouring himself out in ecstasy in the midst 
of the universal radiance of creation, he could not have said 
himself, possibly, what was passing in his mind; but he felt 
something take flight from him and something descend into 
him. Mysterious exchange of the abysses of the soul with 
the abysses of the universe! 

He dreamed of the grandeur and presence of God; of fu- 
ture eternity, that strange mystery; of past eternity, that 
even stranger mystery; of all the infinities which buried 
themselves before his eyes in all directions; and, without seek- 
ing to comprehend the incomprehensible, he gazed upon it. 
He did not study God; he was dazzled by Him. He consid- 
ered those magnificent conjunctions of atoms which reveal 
forces by verifying them, communicate aspects to matter, cre- 
ate individualities in unity, proportions in space, innumera- 
bility in the Infinite, and through light produce beauty. 
Such conjunctions incessantly take place, and are dissolved 
again incessantly, and hence come life and death. 


60 FANTINE 


He would sit down on a wooden bench with his back against 
a rickety trellis, and gaze at the stars through the stunted, 
sickly outlines of his fruit-trees. This quarter of an acre, 
so poorly planted, and so encumbered with mean sheds and 
outhouses, was dear to him, and was sufficient for him. What 
more was wanting to this aged man, who divided the leisure 
of his life, which knew so little leisure, between gardening by , 
day and contemplation by night? Was not this narrow en- 
closure with the sky for its roof sufficient to enable him to 
adore God by turns in His most sublime works? Was not this 
everything, in fact? And what could be desired beyond? &lt;A 
small garden to walk about in, and immensity to dream in; at 
his feet, that which may be cultivated and gathered; over his 
head, that which may be studied and meditated; on the earth 
a few flowers, and all the stars in the heavens. 


CHAPTER XIV 
WHAT HE THOUGHT 


NE last word. 

As these details might, especially at the present day, 
and to employ an expression which is now fashionable, give 
the bishop of D a certain “ Pantheistic ” physiognomy, 
and cause it to be believed, either to his praise or blame, that 
he entertained one of those personal philosophies peculiar to 
our age, which sometimes germinate in solitary minds, and 
grow until they take the place of religion, we must lay stress 
on the fact that not one of the persons who knew Monseigneur 
Bienvenu would have believed himself authorized in thinking 
anything of the sort. What enlightened this man was his 
heart; and his wisdom was the product of the light which 
emanated from it. 

He had no systems, but abundance of deeds. Abstruse 





FANTINE 61 


speculations contain vertigo, and nothing indicates that he 
ventured his mind amid the Apocalypses. ‘The apostle may 
be bold, but the bishop must be timid. He probably would 
have scrupled to go too deep into certain problems reserved 
to some extent for great and terrible minds. ‘There is a sa- 
cred horror beneath the portals of the enigma; the gloomy 
abyss gapes before you, but something tells you, a passer-by 
in life, that you must not enter: woe to the man who does so. 
Geniuses, in the impenetrable depths of abstraction and pure 
speculation, situated, so to speak, above dogmas, propose 
their ideas to God; their prayer audaciously offers discus- 
sion, and their adoration interrogates. This is direct religion, 
full of anxiety and responsibility for the man who attempts 
to carry the escarpment by storm. 

Human meditation has no limits; at its own risk and peril 
it analyzes and produces its own bewilderment; we might al- 
most say that, through a sort of splendid reaction, it bewilders 
nature with it. The mysterious world around us gives back 
what it receives; and it is probable that the contemplators are 
contemplated. However this may be there are in the world 
men — are they men? — who distinctly perceive on the hori- 
zon of dreamland the heights of the Absolute, and have the 
terrible vision of the mountain of the Infinite. Monseigneur 
Bienvenu was not one of these men, for he was not a genius. 
He would have feared these sublimities, from which even very 
great men like Swedenborg and Pascal have slipped into in- 
sanity. Assuredly, such powerful reveries have their moral 
utility, and by these arduous paths ideal perfection is ap- 
proached; but he took a short cut,—the Gospel. He did 
not attempt to convert his chasuble into Elijah’s cloak; he 
cast no beam of the future over the gloomy heaving of 
events; he did not seek to condense the: light of things into 
flame; there was nothing of the prophet or the Magician 
about him. ‘This humble soul loved, that was all. 

It is probable that he carried prayer to the pitch of a 
superhuman aspiration; but a man can no more pray too 
much than he can love too much. And if it were a heresy to 


62 : FANTINE 


pray further than the text, Saint Theresa and Sait Jerome 
would be heretics. He bent over all that groaned and all 
that expiated; the universe appeared to him an immense 
malady: he felt fever everywhere; he heard the sound of suf- 
fering all around him; and, without trying to solve the enig- 
ma, he sought to heal the wound. The dreadful spectacle 
of created things developed tenderness in him; he was solely 
engaged in finding for himself and arousing in others the 
best way to pity and relieve. Existence was to this good 
and rare priest a permanent subject of sorrow seeking to 
console. 

There are some men who toil to extract gold, but he 
laboured to extract pity; universal wretchedness was his mine. 
Universal sorrow was only an opportunity for constant kind- 
ness. ‘“‘ Love one another,” he declared to be complete; he 
wished for nothing more, and that was his entire doctrine. 
One day the senator, who believed himself a ‘* philosopher,” 
said to the bishop, ‘* Just look at the spectacle of the world; 
all war against all, and the strongest is the cleverest. Your 
‘love one another’ is nonsense.” ‘* Well,” Monseigneur 
Bienvenu replied, without discussion, “if it be nonsense, the 
soul must shut itself up in it like the pearl in the oyster.” 
He consequently shut himself up in it, lived in it, was abso- 
lutely satisfied with it, setting aside those prodigious ques- 
tions which attract and terrify,— the unfathomable perspec- 
tives of the abstract, the precipices of metaphysics; all those 
depths which for the apostle converge in God, for the atheist 
in nothingness,— destiny, good and evil, the war of being 
against being, human consciousness, the pensive somnam- 
bulism of the animal, transformation through death, the 
recapitulation of existences which the grave contains, the in- 
comprehensible grafting of successive loves on the persistent 
ego, essence, substance, the Nil and the Ens, the soul, nature, 
liberty, necessity ;—-in a word, he avoided all the gloomy 
precipices over which the gigantic archangels of the human 
mind bend, the formidable abysses which Lucretius, Menu, 
Saint Paul, and Dante contemplate with that flashing eye 


FANTINE 63 


which seems by its steady gaze on infinity to make stars blaze 
forth there. 

Monseigneur Bienvenu was simply a man who accepted 
mysterious questions without scrutinizing, without disturbing 
them, or troubling his own mind, and who had in his soul a 
grave respect for the shadow. 


BOOK II 


THE FALL 





CHAPTER I 
THE CLOSE OF A DAY’S MARCH 


T the beginning of October, 1815, and about an hour be- 
fore sunset, a man travelling on foot entered the little 
town of D The few inhabitants who were at the mo- 
ment at their windows or doors, regarded this traveller with 
uneasiness. It would be hard to find a wayfayer of more 
wretched appearance; he was a man of middle height, mus- 
cular and robust, and in the full vigour of hfe. He might 
be forty-six to forty-eight years of age. A cap with a 
leather peak partly concealed his sunburnt face, down which 
the perspiration streamed. His shirt of coarse yellow linen, 
fastened at the neck by a small silver anchor, allowed his 
hairy chest to be seen; he wore a neckcloth twisted into a 
string, trousers of blue drilling, worn and threadbare, white 
on one knee and torn on the other; an old, gray, ragged 
blouse, patched at one elbow with a bit of green cloth stitched 
with twine; on his back was a large, new, well-buckled, well- 
filled knapsack, and in his hand a huge knotty stick. His 
stockingless feet were thrust into iron-nailed shoes, his hair 
was cut close, and his beard was long. Perspiration, heat, 
travelling on foot, and the dust, added something sordid to 
his wretched appearance. His hair was cut close and yet 
was bristling, for it was beginning to grow a little, and did 
not seem to have been cut for some time. 


64 





FANTINE 65 


No one knew him; he was evidently only passing through 
the town. Where did he come from? _ The south perhaps, 
the sea-board, for he made his entrance into D by the 
same road Napoleon had driven along seven months previously 
when going from Cannes to Paris. The man must have been 
walking all day, for he seemed very tired. Ssome women in 
the old suburb at the lower part of the town had seen him 
halt under the trees on the Boulevard Gassendi, and drink 
from the fountain at the end of the walk. He must have been 
very thirsty, for the children who followed him saw him stop 
and drink again at the fountain in the market-place two hun- 
dred paces farther on. On reaching the corner of the Rue 
Poichevert, he turned to the left and proceeded to the mayor’s 
office. He went in, and came out again a quarter of an hour 
after. A police officer was sitting near the door, on the stone 
bench which General Drouot had mounted on March 4th, to 
read to the startled townsfolk of D the proclamation of 
the Gulf of Juan. The man doffed his cap and bowed hum- 
bly to the officer; the latter, without returning his salute, 
looked at him attentively, and then entered the office. 

There was at that time at D a capital inn, at the sign 
of the Cross of Colbas. This inn was kept by a certain 
Jacquin Labarre, a man highly respected in the town for 
his relationship to another Labarre, who kept the Three 
Dauphins at Grenoble, and had ‘served in the Guides. When 
the Emperor landed, many rumours were current in the coun- 
try about the Three Dauphins; it was said that General 
Bertrand, in the disguise of a wagoner, had stopped there 
several times in the month of January, and had distributed 
crosses of honour to the soldiers and handfuls of gold to 
the townspeople. 

The fact is that the Emperor, on entering Grenoble, re- 
fused to take up his quarters at the prefecture; he thanked 
the mayor, and said, “‘I am going to a worthy man whom 
I know,” and he went to the Three Dauphins. The glory 
of the Grenoble Labarre was reflected for a distance of 
eee tenhy leagues on the Labarre of the Cross of Col- 











66 FANTINE 


bas. The townspeople said of him, ‘ He is cousin to the one 
at Grenoble.” 

The man proceeded to this inn, which was the best in that 
part of the country, and entered the kitchen, the door of 
which opened on the street. All the ranges were lighted, 
and a large fire blazed cheerily in the chimney. The host, 
who was at the same time head-cook, went from the hearth 
to the stew-pans, very busy in attending to a dinner in- 
tended for the carriers, who could be heard laughing and 
talking noisily in an adjoining room. Any one who has 
travelled knows that no people feed so well as carriers. A 
fat marmot, flanked by partridges and grouse, was turning 
on a long spit before the fire, while two large carp from Lake 
Lauzet and trout from Lake Alloz were bubbling on the stove. 
The landlord hearing the door open and a stranger enter, 
said, without raising his eyes from the stew-pans :— 

$¢ What do you want, sir? ” 

“ Supper and a bed,” the man replied. 

“ Nothing easier,” said mine host. At this moment he 
looked up, took in the stranger’s appearance at a glance, and 
added, “ By paying for it.” 

The man drew a heavy leathern purse from the pocket of 
his blouse, and replied:— 

“ T have money.” 

“In that case I am at your service,”’ said the host. 

The man returned the purse to his pocket, took off his 
knapsack, placed it on the ground near the door, kept his 
stick in his hand, and sat down on a low stool near the fire. 
D is in the mountains, and the evenings there are cold 
in October. As he went to and fro, the landlord still in- 
spected his guest. 

‘‘ Will supper be ready soon? ” the man asked. 

*¢ Directly.” | 

While the new-comer turned his back to warm himself, the 
worthy landlord took a pencil from his pocket, and then tore 
off the corner of an old newspaper which lay on a small table 
near the window. He wrote a line or two on the white 





FANTINE 67 


margin, folded the paper, and handed it to a lad who seemed 
to serve both as turnspit and page. The landlord whispered 
a word in the boy’s ear, and he ran off in the direction of the 
mayor’s house. ‘The traveller had seen nothing of all this, 
and he asked again whether supper would be ready soon. 
The boy came back with the paper in his hand, and the land- 
lord eagerly unfolded it, like a man who is expecting an an- 
swer. He read it carefully, then shook his head, and seemed 
thoughtful for a moment. At last he walked up to the trav- 
eller, who seemed plunged in anything but a pleasant revery. 

‘¢T cannot make room for you, sir,”’ he said. 

The man half turned on his stool. 

**'What do you mean? Are you afraid I shall not pay? 
Do you want me to pay in advance? I have money, I tell 
you.” 

** It is not that.” 

© What is it, then? ” 

**’You have money.” 

“ Yes,”’ said the man. 

** But I have no room.” 

The man continued quietly: ‘* Put me in the stables.” 

‘IT cannot.” 

66 Why? 99 

* The horses take up all the room.” 

*° Well,” replied the man, “ a corner of the loft and a truss 
of straw; we will see to that after supper.” 

** I cannot give you any supper.” 

This declaration, made in a measured but firm tone, seemed 
serious to the stranger. He rose. 

** Nonsense; I am dying of hunger. I have been on my 
legs since sunrise, and have walked twelve leagues. I can 
pay, and I demand food.” 

“IT have none,” said the landlord. 

The man burst into a laugh, and turned to the fire and the 
range. 

** Nothing! Why, what is all this? ” 

** All this is ordered.” 


68 FAN TINE 


“By whom? ” 

‘* By the carriers.” 

‘‘ How many are there of them? ” 

*¢ Twelve.” 

‘“‘ There is enough food here for twenty.” 

“They have engaged it all and paid for it in advance.” 

The man sat down again, and said, without raising his 
voice :— 

“‘T am at an inn, I am hungry, and so shall remain.” 

The landlord then stooped, and whispered in a tone which 
made the man start, “‘ Be off with you!” 

The stranger at this moment was thrusting some logs into 
the fire with the iron-shod tip of his stick, but he turned 
quickly, and as he opened his mouth to reply, the landlord 
continued in the same low voice: ‘‘ Come, enough of this. 
Do you want me to tell you your name? It is Jean Valjean. 
Now, do you wish me to tell you who you are? When I saw 
you come in, I suspected something, so I sent to the police 
office ; and this is the answer I received. Can you read? ” 

As he said this, he handed the stranger the paper which 
had travelled from the inn to the office and back again. The 
man took a glance at it, and mine host continued, after a mo- 
ment’s silence :— . 

‘‘T am accustomed to be polite to everybody. Be off!” 

The man stooped, picked up his knapsack, and went off. 
He walked along the high street haphazard, keeping close to 
the houses like a sad and humiliated man. He did not look 
back once. Had he‘done so, he would have seen the landlord 
of the Cross of Colbas in his doorway, surrounded by all his 
guests and the passers-by, talking eagerly, and pointing to 
him; and, judging from the looks of suspicion and terror of 
the group, he might have guessed that ere long his arrival 
would be the event of the whole town. He saw nothing of all 
this, for men who are oppressed do not look back, as they 
know only too well that an evil destiny is following them. 

He walked on thus for a long time, turning down streets 
he did not know, and forgetting his fatigue, as happens in 


FANTINE 69 


sorrow. ll at once he was sharply assailed by hunger ; night 
was approaching, and he looked around to see whether he 
could not discover a shelter. The best inn was closed against 
him, and he sought some very humble pot-house, some wretched 
den. At this moment a lamp was lit at the end of the street, 
and a fir-branch hanging from an iron bar stood out against 
the white twilight sky. He went toward it; it was really a 
pot-house,— the pot-house in the Rue de Chaffaut. The 
stranger stopped for a moment and looked through the win- 
dow into the low tap-room, which was lighted by a small 
lamp on the table and a large fire on the hearth. Some men 
were drinking, and the landlord was warming himself; over 
the flames bubbled a cauldron hanging from an iron crane. 
This pot-house, which is also a sort of inn, has two entrances, 
one on the street, the other opening on a small yard filled 
with manure. ‘The traveller did not dare to enter by the street 
door; he slipped into the yard, stopped once again, and then 
timidly raised the latch and pushed open the door. 

‘* Who’s there? ” asked the landlord. 

‘* Some one who wants a supper and bed.” 

“Very good. ‘They are to be had here.” 

He went in, and all the topers turned to look at him; the 
lamp illuminated him on one side, the fire on the other. They 
examined him for some time while he was taking off his knap- 
sack. Said the landlord to him, “ Here is a fire; supper is 
boiling in the pot ; come and warm yourself, comrade.” 

He sat down in the ingle and stretched out his feet, which 
were swollen with fatigue. A pleasant smell issued from the 
cauldron. All that could be distinguished of his face, un- 
der his visor, assumed a vague appearance of comfort blended 
with that other pathetic aspect which habitual suffering pro- 
duces. It was, moreover, a firm, energetic, and sad profile. 
The face was strangely composite; for it began by appearing 
humble, and ended by seeming severe. His eyes gleamed un- 
der his brows like a fire through brushwood. One of the men 
seated at the table was a fishmonger, who, before entering the 
pot-house, had gone to put up his horse in Labarre’s stables. 


70 FANTINE 


Accident willed it that on the same morning he had met this 
ill-looking stranger walking between Bras d’Asse and —I 
have forgotten the name, but I fancy it is Escoublon. Now, 
on meeting him, the man, who appeared very tired, had asked 
him to give him a lift, which had only made the fishmonger 
go the faster. This fishmonger had been half an hour previ- 
ously one of the party surrounding Jacquin Lebarre, and had 
told his unpleasant encounter of the morning to the people 
at the Cross of Colbas. He made an imperceptible sign to 
the landlord from his seat; the latter went up to him, and 
they exchanged a few whispered words. The man had fallen 
back into his revery. 

The landlord went up to the fireplace, laid his hand ab- 
ruptly on the man’s shoulder, and said :— 

‘‘'You must be off from here.” 

The stranger turned and replied gently: ‘“ Ah, you 
know? ” 

66 Yes.”’ 

‘IT was turned out of the other inn.” 

*¢ And so you will be out of this.” 

*“¢ Where would you have me go? ” 

** Somewhere else.” 

The man took his knapsack and stick and went away. As 
he stepped out, some boys who had followed him from the 
Cross of Colbas, and seemed to be waiting for him, threw 
stones at him. He turned savagely, and threatened them 
with his stick; the boys dispersed like a flock of birds. He. 
passed in front of the prison, and pulled the iron bell- 
handle; a wicket was opened. 

“Mr. Turnkey,” he said, as he humbly doffed his cap, 
“would you be kind enough to open the door and give me a 
night’s lodging? ” 

A voice answered, *‘ A prison is not an inn; get yourself 
arrested and then I will open the door.” 

The man entered a small street in which there are numer- 
ous gardens; some of them, being merely enclosed with 
hedges, enliven the street. Among these gardens and hedges 


FANTINE Ti 


he saw a single-storied house, whose window was illuminated, 
and he looked through the panes as he had done at the pot- 
house. It was a large whitewashed room, with a bed with 
printed chintz curtains, a cradle in a corner, a few chairs, and 
a double-barrelled gun hanging on the wall. &lt;A table was 
laid for supper in the middle of the room; a copper lamp 
lit up the coarse white cloth, the pewter mug glistening like 
silver, and full of wine, and the brown smoking soup-tureen. 
At this table sat a man about forty years of age, with a 
hearty, open face, who was riding a child on his knee. By 
his side, a woman, still young, was suckling another child. 
The father was laughing, the children were laughing, and 
the mother was smiling. The stranger stood for a moment 
pensively before this gentle and calming spectacle. What 
was going on within him? It would be impossible to say; 
but it is probable that he thought that this joyous house would 
prove hospitable, and that where he saw so much happiness 
he might find a little pity. He tapped very slightly on a 
window-pane, but was not heard; he tapped a second time, 
and he heard the woman say, “‘ Husband, I fancy I hear some 
one knocking.” 

“No,” the husband answered. 

He tapped a third time. The husband rose, took the 
lamp, and walked to the front door. He was a tall man, half 
peasant, half artisan; he wore a huge leathern apron, which 
came up to his left shoulder, and in it he carried a hammer, 
a red handkerchief, a powder-flask, and all sorts of things, 
which his belt held as in a pocket. As he threw back his 
head, his shirt opened wide and turned back, displayed his 
bull neck, white and bare. He had thick eyebrows, enor- 
mous black whiskers, prominent eyes, a bull-dog lower jaw, 
and, besides all this, an indescribable air of being at home. 

‘‘T beg your pardon,” said the traveller, ‘“‘ but would you, 
for payment, give me a plate of soup and a corner of your 
garden shed to sleep in? ” 

““'Who are you?” asked the owner of the cottage. 

The man answered, “I have come from Puy Moisson; I 


72 FANTINE 
have walked the whole day. Could you do it? — for pay- 


ment, of course.” 

‘*‘T would not refuse,” the peasant answered, “ to lodge any 
respectable person who paid. But why do you not go to 
the inn? ” 

‘There is no room.” 

‘“¢ Nonsense! that is impossible ; it is neither market nor fair 
day. Have you been to Labarre’s? ” 

66 Yes.” 

66 Well? 99 

The traveller continued, with some hesitation, “I do not 
know why. He refused to take me in.” 

‘“ Have you been to What-’s-his-name’s, in the Rue de 
Chaffaut? ” 

The stranger’s embarrassment increased; he stammered, 
** He would not take me either.” 

The peasant’s face assumed an expression of distrust; he 
surveyed the new-comer from head to foot, and all at once 
exclaimed, with a sort of shudder :— 

** Can you be the man? ” 

He took another look at the stranger, placed the lamp on 
the table, and took down his gun. On hearing the peasant 
say, “Can you be the man?” his wife had risen, taken her 
two children in her arms, and hurriedly sought refuge be- 
hind her husband, looking in horror at the stranger, with 
bare bosom and startled eyes, as she muttered: “ T'so- 
maraude!” (The villain!) All this took place in less time 
than is needed to imagine it. After examining the man for 
some minutes as if he had been a viper, the peasant turned to 
the door and said, “‘ Be off ! ” 

“For mercy’s sake,” the man continued, “a glass of 
water.” 

“A charge of shot!” the peasant said. 

Then he closed the door violently, and the stranger heard 
him push two bolts. A moment after, the window shutters 
were closed, and the sound of the iron bar reached his ear. 
Night was coming on apace; a cold wind from the Alps was 


FANTINE 13 


blowing. By the light of the expiring day the stranger no- 
ticed in one of the gardens a sort of hut which seemed to him 
to be made of sods. He boldly clambered over a railing and 
found himself in the garden; he approached the hut, which 
had as entrance a narrow, extremely low door, and resem- 
bled the hovels which road-menders construct by the side of 
the highway. He doubtless thought it was such; he was 
suffering from cold and hunger, and though he had made up 
his mind to starve, it was at any rate a shelter against the 
cold. As this sort of residence is not usually occupied at 
night, he lay down on his stomach and crawled into the 
hut; it was warm, and he found rather a good straw litter in 
it. He lay for a moment motionless on this bed as his fatigue 
was great; but as his knapsack hurt his back and was a 
ready-made pillow, he began unbuckling one of the thongs. 
At this moment a hoarse growl was heard; he raised his eyes, 
and the head of an enormous mastiff was outlined in the 
shadow at the opening of the hut. It was the dog’s kennel. 
The dog itself was strong and formidable, hence the man 
raised his stick, employed his knapsack as a shield, and left 
the kennel as he best could, though not without enlarging the 
rents in his rags. 

He also left the garden, but backward, and compelled tu 
flourish his stick in order to keep the dog at a respectful dis- 
tance. When he had, not without difficulty, leaped the fence 
again, and found himself once more in the street, alone, with- 
out a bed, roof, or shelter, and expelled even from the bed 
of straw and that miserable kennel, he fell rather than sat 
on a stone, and a passer-by heard him exclaim, “I am not 
even a dog.”” He soon rose and resumed his walk. He left 
the town hoping to find some tree or some mill in the fields 
which would afford him shelter. He walked on thus for 
some time with drooping head; when he found himself far 
from all human habitations, he raised his eyes and looked 
around him. He was in a field, and before him was one of 
those low hills, with close-cut stubble, which after harvest 
resemble cropped heads. The horizon was perfectly black; 


74 FANTINE 


it was not solely the gloom of night, but low clouds, which 
seemed to be resting on the hill itself, rose and filled the 
whole sky. Still, as the moon was about to rise, and a rem- 
nant of twilight still hovered in the zenith, these clouds 
formed a species of whitish vault whence a gleam of light 
was thrown on the earth. 

The ground was, therefore, better lighted than the sky, 
which produces a peculiarly sinister effect; and the hill with 
its poor, weak outlines stood out vague and wan against the 
gloomy horizon. The whole scene was hideous, mean, mourn- 
ful, and narrow; there was nothing in the field or on the hill 
but a stunted tree, which writhed and trembled a few yards 
from the traveller. This man was evidently far from pos- 
sessing those delicate habits of mind which render one sensi- 
ble to the mysterious aspects of things; still there was in the 
sky, the hill, the plain, and the tree, something so profoundly 
desolate that, after standing motionless and thoughtful for a 
moment, he suddenly turned back. There are instants in 
which nature seems to be hostile. 

He retraced his steps and found the gates of the town 
closed. D , which sustained sieges in the religious wars, 
was in 1815 still begirt by old walls flanked by square towers, 
which have since been demolished. He passed through a 
breach, and re-entered the town. It might have been about 
eight o’clock in the evening; and as he did not know the 
streets, he wandered about without purpose. He thus reached 
the prefecture and then the seminary; as he passed through 
the cathedral square he shook his fist at the church. At the 
corner of this square there is a printing-office, where the 
proclamations of the Emperor and the imperial guard to the 
army, brought from Elba, and dictated by Napoleon him- 
self, were first printed. 

Worn out with fatigue, and hopeless, he threw himself 
down on the stone bench at the door of this printing-office. 
Just then an old woman left the church and saw the man 
stretched out in the darkness. 

** What are you doing there, my friend? ” she said. 





FANTINE 75 


He answered, harshly and savagely, “‘ You can see, my 
good woman, that I am going to sleep.” 

The good woman, who was really worthy of the name, 
was the Marchioness of R : 

** On that bench? ” she asked. 

“TI have had a wooden mattress for nineteen years, 
the man, “ and now I have a stone one.” 

*“* Have you been a soldier? ” 

** Yes, my good woman.” 

*¢ Why do you not go to the inn? ” 

** Because I have no money.” 

** Alas! ”? said Madame R 
my purse.” 

** You can give them to me, all the same.” 

The man took the money, and Madame R continued, 
** You cannot lodge at an inn for so small a sum; but have 
you made the attempt? You cannot possibly spend the night 
here. Doubtless, you are cold and hungry, and some one 
might take you in for charity.” 

“I have knocked at every door.” 

Well? ” 

** And was turned away from all.” 

The ‘ good woman” touched the man’s arm and pointed 
out to him a small house on the other side of the Square, next 
to the bishop’s palace. 

“You have,’ she continued, ‘knocked at every door. 
Have you done so there? ” 

66 No.”’ 

“Then do it.” 





” said 





» “I have only twopence in 





76 FANTINE 


CHAPTER II 
PRUDENCE COUNSELLED TO WISDOM 


HAT evening, the bishop of D , after his walk in 
the town, had remained in his bedroom till a late 
hour. He was engaged on a great work on “ Duties,” which 
he unfortunately left incomplete. He carefully analyzed all 
that the Fathers and Doctors have said on this grave mat- 
ter. The book was divided into two parts,— first, the duties 
of all; second, the duties. of each individual, according to 
the class to which he belongs. ‘The duties of all are the 
‘“‘ great duties,” four in number. ‘They are indicated by 
Saint Matthew,— duty to God (Matt. vi.); duty to self 
(Matt. v. 29, 30); duty to one’s neighbour (Matt. vii. 42), 
and duty to God’s creatures (Matt. vi. 20, 25). As re- 
gards the other duties, the bishop found them pointed out 
and prescribed elsewhere: to sovereigns and subjects, in the 
Epistle to the Romans; to magistrates, wives, mothers, and 
young men, by Saint Peter; to husbands, fathers, children, 
and servants, in the Epistle to the Ephesians; to the faith- 
ful, in the Epistle to the Hebrews; to virgins, in the Epistle 
to the Corinthians. Out of all these teachings he was labori- 
ously constructing a harmonious whole which he wished to 
present to souls. 

He was still working at eight o’clock, writing rather un- — 
comfortably on small sheets of paper, with a large book 
open on his knees, when Madame Magloire came in as usual 
to fetch the silver from the cupboard near the bed. A 
moment after, the bishop, knowing that supper was ready 
and that his sister might be waiting, closed his book, rose 
from the table, and walked into the dining-room. It was an 
oblong apartment, as we have said, with a fireplace, a door 
opening on the street, and a window looking on the garden. 
Madame Magloire had laid the table, and while attending 





FANTINE 17 


to her duties. was chatting with Mlle. eg nk A lamp 
stood on the table, which was close to the fireplace, in which 
a good fire was burning. 

We can easily picture the two women, both of whom had 
passed their sixtieth year: Madame Magloire, short, stout, 
and vivacious; Mlle. Baptistine, gentle, slender, and frail, 
somewhat taller.than her brother, dressed in a puce-coloured 
silk gown, the fashionable colour in 1806, which she had 
bought in Paris in that year, and which still held out. To 
borrow common terms which have the merit of conveying in a 
single word an idea which a page would scarcely suffice to 
express, Madame Magloire looked like a peasant, her mistress 
like a lady. Madame Magloire wore a white fluted cap, at 
her neck a gold cross,— the only piece of feminine jewelry in 
the house,—a very white handkerchief emerging from a 
black stuff gown with wide, short sleeves, a red and green 
checked calico apron, tied round the waist with a green rib- 
bon, a bib of the same stuff fastened with two pins at the 
top corners, heavy shoes and yellow stockings, like the Mar- 
seilles women. Mlle. Baptistine’s gown was cut after the 
fashion of 1806, short-waisted, scant skirt, epaulets on the 
sleeves, with flaps and buttons; and she concealed her gray 
hair under a frizzed front called a “ baby-wig.” Madame 
Magloire had an intelligent, quick, and kindly air, though the 
unevenly raised corners of her mouth and the upper lip, 
thicker than the lower, gave her a somewhat rough and im- 
perious air. So long as Monseigneur was silent, she spoke 
to him boldly with mingled respect and freedom; but so soon 
as he spoke she passively obeyed, like her mistress, who never 
replied, but restricted herself to obeying and pleasing him. 
Even when she was young, the latter was not pretty. She had 
large, prominent blue eyes, and a long peaked nose; but her 
whole face, her whole person, as we said at the outset, breathed 
ineffable kindness. She always was predestined to gentleness ; 
but Faith, Hope, and Charity, those three virtues which softly 
warm the soul, had gradually elevated that gentleness: into 
sanctity. Nature had made her only a lamb, and religion 


78 FANTINE 


had made her an angel. Poor sainted woman! Sweet van- 
ished memory ! 

She afterward narrated so many times what took place at 
the bishopric on this evening that several persons still liv- 
ing remember the slightest details. When the bishop en- 
tered, Madame Magloire was talking with some vivacity; she 
was conversing with her mistress on a subject that was fa- 
miliar to her, and to which the bishop was accustomed,— 
that is, the matter of the front door latch. It appears that 
while going to buy something for supper, Madame Magloire 
had heard things in various quarters; people were talking of 
an ill-looking prowler, a suspicious vagabond, who was some- 
where in town; and it would possibly be an unpleasant thing, 
for any one who took a fancy to come home late, to meet 
him. The police were very badly managed because the pre- 
fect and the mayor were not friendly, and tried to injure 
each other by allowing things to happen. Hence wise people 
would be their own police, and be careful to bolt and bar 
their houses, and lock their doors. 

Madame Magloire emphasized the last words; but the 
bishop had just come from his room, where it was rather cold, 
and was warming himself at the fire; and besides, he was 
thinking of other matters. In fact, he did not catch the 
words which Madame Magloire had just let drop. She re- 
peated them; and then Mlle. Baptistine, who wished to satisfy 
Madame Magloire without displeasing her brother, ventured 
to say timidly :-— 

*‘ Brother, do you hear what Madame Magloire says? ” 

“I heard something vaguely,” the bishop answered; then 
he half turned his chair, placed his hands on his knees, and 
looked up at the old servant with his cordial and easily pleased 
face, which the fire illumined from below: ‘“ Well, what is 
it? what isit? Are we in any great danger? ” 

Then Madame Magloire told her story over again, exagger- 
ating it slightly, though unsuspicious of the fact. It would 
seem that a gypsy, a barefooted fellow, a sort of dangerous 
beggar, was in town. He had tried to get a lodging at 


FANTINE 79 


Jacquin Labarre’s, but he had refused to take him in. He 
had been seen prowling about the streets at nightfall, and 
was evidently a gallows-bird, with his frightful face. 

‘Is he really? ” said the bishop. 

This willingness to question her, encouraged Madame Ma- 
gloire; it seemed to show that the bishop was beginning to 
grow alarmed, and hence she continued triumphantly :— 

“Yes, sir, it is so; and some misfortune will occur in 
town to-night. Everybody says so; and then the police are 
so badly managed! [Useful repetition.] Fancy living in a 
mountainous country, and not even having lights in the 
streets at night! You go out and find yourself in pitch 
darkness. I say, sir, and your sister says —” 

“I,” interrupted his sister, “say nothing; whatever my 
beater does is right.” 

Madame Magloire continued, as if no protest had been 
made :— 

“We say that this house is not at all safe, and that if 
Monseigneur permits, I will go to Paulin Musebois, the lock- 
smith, and tell him to put the old bolts on the door again; I 
have them by me, and it will not take a minute. And I say, 
sir, that we ought to have bolts, if it were only for to-night ; 
for I say that a door which can be opened from the outside 
by the first passer-by is most terrible. Besides, you, sir, al- 
ways say, ‘ Come in;’ and even in the middle of the night, oh, 
my gracious! there is no occasion to ask for permission.” 

At this moment there was rather a loud rap at the front 
door. 

*“* Come in,” said the bishop. 


80 FANTINE 


CHAPTER III 
THE HEROISM OF PASSIVE OBEDIENCE 


ia door opened. It opened wide, as if some one had 

given it an energetic and resolute push. A man en- 
tered whom we already know; it was the traveller whom we 
saw just now wandering about in search of a shelter. He 
entered and paused, leaving the door open behind him. He 
had his knapsack on his shoulder, his stick in his hand, and 
a rough, bold, wearied, and violent expression in his eyes. 
The firelight fell on him,— he was hideous; it was a sinister 
apparition. 

Madame Magloire had not even the strength to utter a 
cry; she shivered, and stood with widely open mouth. Mlle. 
Baptistine turned, saw the man entered, and half started up 
in terror; then, turning her head by degrees to the fireplace, 
she looked at her brother, and her face became calm and se- 
rene again. The bishop fixed a tranquil eye on the man. As 
he opened his mouth, doubtless to ask the new-comer what he 
wanted, the man leaned both hands on his stick, looked in 
turn at the two women and the old man, and, not waiting for 
the bishop to speak, said in a loud voice :— 

“Look here! my name is Jean Valjean. I am a galley- 
slave, and have spent nineteen years in the galleys. I was 
set free four days ago, and started for Pontarlier, which is 
my destination. I have been walking for four days since I 
left Toulon, and to-day I have travelled twelve leagues. 
This evening on coming into town I went to the inn, but 
was sent away in consequence of my yellow passport, which 
I had shown at the police office. I went to another inn, and 
the landlord said to me, ‘ Be off!’ It was the same every- 
where, and no one would have any dealings with me. I went 
to the prison, but the jailer would not take me in. I got into 
a dog’s kennel, but the dog bit me and drove me off, as if 


~ 


FANTINE 81 


he had been a man; he seemed to know who I was. I went 
into the fields to sleep in the starlight, but there were no 
stars. I thought it would rain; and as there was no God to 
prevent it from raining, I came back to the town to find shel- 
ter in a doorway. I was lying down on a stone in the 
Square, when a good woman pointed out your house, and 
said, ‘Go and knock there.’ What sort of a house is this? 
Do you keep an inn? I have money,—one hundred and 
nine francs, fifteen sous,— which I earned in the galleys by 
my nineteen years’ toil. I will pay. What do I care? I 
have money! I am very tired,— twelve leagues on foot,— 
and frightfully hungry; will you let me stay here? ” 

‘Madame Magloire,” said the bishop, “ you will lay an- 
other knife and fork.” 

The man advanced three paces, and approached the lamp 
which was on the table. ‘“ Wait a minute,” he continued, as 
if he had not fully understood; ‘‘ that will not do. Did you 
not hear me say that I was a galley-slave, a convict, and have 
just come from the galleys?” He took from his pocket a 
large yellow paper, which he unfolded. “ Here is my pass- 
port, yellow, as you see, which turns me out wherever I go. 
Will you read it? I can read it, for I learned to do so in the 
galleys, where there is a school for those who like to attend. 
This is what is written in my passport: ‘ Jean Valjean, dis- 
charged convict, native of ’— but that does not concern you — 
‘has been nineteen years in the galleys. Five years for rob- 
bing and entering, fourteen years for trying four times to es- 
cape. ‘The man is very dangerous.” ‘There! Every one has 
turned me out, and are you willing to receive me? Is this an 
inn? Will you give me some food and a bed? Have youa 
stable? ” } 

*“* Madame Magloire,” said the bishop, “ you will put clean 
sheets on the bed in the alcove.” 

We have already explained the nature of the two women’s 
obedience. Madame Magloire left the room to carry out 
her orders. ‘The bishop turned to the man. 

e “ie down and warm yourself, sir. We shall sup di- 


82 FAN TINE 


rectly, and your bed will be got ready while you are supping.” 

The man understood this at once. ‘The expression of his 
face, which had hitherto been gloomy and harsh, was marked 
with stupefaction, joy, doubt, and became extraordinary. 
He began to stammer like a lunatic. 

“Ts it true? What! you will let me stay; you will not 
turn me out, a convict? You call me Sir. ‘ Get out, dog!’ 
that is what is always said to me; I really believed you would 
turn me out, and so I told you at once who I am! Oh, what 
a worthy woman she was who sent me here! I shall have 
supper, a bed with mattresses and sheets, like everybody else! 
A bed! For nineteen years I have not slept in a bed! You 
really mean that I am to stay? You are good people; be- 
sides, I have money and will pay handsomely. By the way, 
what is your name, Mr. Landlord? I will pay anything you 
vlease, for you are a good man. You keep an inn, do you 
mor 7 i 

‘“* IT am,” said the bishop, “‘ a priest, living in this house.” 

“ A priest!” the man continued. “Oh, what a good 
priest! Then you will not ask me for money. The priest, 
I suppose, of that big church? Oh, yes, what an ass I 
am; I did not notice your cassock.” 

As he spoke, he deposited his knapsack and stick in a 
corner, returned his passport to his pocket, and sat down. 
While Mlle. Baptistine regarded him mildly, he went on: 

“You are humane, sir, and do not feel contempt. &lt;A good 
priest is very good. Then you do not want me to pay?” 

“‘ No,” said the bishop, “‘ keep your money. How much 
have you? Didn’t you say a hundred and nine francs? ” 

‘* And fifteen sous,’’ added the man. 

‘“‘ A hundred and nine francs fifteen sous. How long did 
it take you to earn them? ” 

‘* Nineteen years.” 

*“* Nineteen years!” ‘The bishop gave a deep sigh. 

The man went on: ‘I have all my money still; in four 
days I have only spent twenty-five sous, which I earned by 
helping to unload carts at Grasse. As you are a priest, { 


FANTINE 83 


will tell you: we had a chaplain in the galleys, and one day I 
saw a bishop. They called him ‘ Monseigneur.’ He was the 
bishop of Majore, at Marseilles. He is the priest over the 
priests, you know; but pardon me, I express myself badly, it’s 
such a far off thing for me, you understand. He said mass 
in the middle of the galleys at an altar, and had a pointed 
gold thing on his head, which glistened in the bright sun- 
shine. We were drawn up on three sides of a square, with 
cannons with lighted matches facing us. He spoke, but was 
too far off, and we did not hear him. ‘That is what a 
bishop 1s.” 

While he was speaking the bishop closed the door, which 
had been left open. Madame Magloire came in, bringing a 
silver spoon and fork, which she placed on the table. 

‘* Madame Magloire,” said the bishop, “ lay them as near 
as you can to the fire.’ And turning to his guest, he said, 
“The night breeze is sharp in the Alps, and you must be 
cold, sir.” 

Each time he said the word Sir, with his gentle, grave 
voice, the man’s face shone. Str to a convict is like a glass 
of water to a shipwrecked sailor on the Medusa. Ignominy 
thirsts for respect. 

“This lamp gives a very bad light,” the bishop continued. 
Madame Magloire understood, and fetched the two silver can- 
dlesticks from the chimneypiece in Monseigneur’s bedroom, 
placing them on the table ready lighted. 

‘“* Mr. Priest,” said the man, “ you are good, and do not 
despise me. You receive me as a friend, and light your wax 
candles for me; and yet I have not hidden from you whence 
I come, and that I am an unfortunate fellow.” 

The bishop, who was seated by his side, gently touched his 
hand. ‘‘ You need not have told me who you were; this is 
not my house, but the house of Christ. This door does not 
ask ‘a man who enters whether he has a name, but whether he 
has a sorrow; you are suffering, you are hungry and thirsty, 
and so you are welcome. And do not thank me, or say that I 
receive you in my house, for no one is at home here except 


84 FANTINE 


the man who needs a refuge. [I tell you, who are a passer-by, 
that you are more at home here than I am myself, and every- 
thing here is yours. Why should I want to know your 
name? Besides, before you told it to me you had one which 
I knew.” 

The man opened his eyes in amazement. 

“Ts that true? You know my name?” 

“‘ Yes,” answered the bishop; “‘ you are my brother.” 

“Mr. Priest,” exclaimed the man, “I was very hungry 
when I came in, but you are so kind that I do not know what 
ails me; it has passed away.” 

The bishop looked at him and said :— 

“You have suffered greatly? ” 

“Oh, the red jacket, the cannon-ball at your ankle, a 
plank to sleep on, heat, cold, labour, the convicts, the blows, 
the double chain for every trifle, a dungeon for a word, even 
when you are ill in bed, and the chain-gang! ‘The very dogs 
are happier. Nineteen years, and now I am forty-six; and 
now the yellow passport! Here it is!” 

“Yes,” said the bishop, “ you have come from a place of 
sorrow. Listen to me; there will be more joy in heaven over 
the tearful face of a repentant sinner than over the white 
robes of one hundred just men. If you leave that sad place 
with thoughts of hatred and anger against your fellow-men, 
you are worthy of pity; if you leave it with thoughts of kind- 
liness, gentleness, and peace, you are worth more than any 
of us.” 

Meantime Madame Magloire had served supper,— soup 
made of water, oil, bread, and salt, a little bacon, a piece 
of mutton, figs, a fresh cheese, and a loaf of rye bread. She 
had herself added a bottle of old Mauves wine. The bishop’s 
face suddenly assumed the expression of gayety peculiar to 
hospitable natures. ‘“ To table,” he said eagerly, as he was 
wont to do when any stranger supped with him; and he bade 
the man sit on his right hand, while Mlle. Baptistine, per- 
fectly serene and natural, took her seat on his left. The 
bishop said grace, and then served the soup himself, as usual. 


FANTINE 85 
The man began to eat greedily. All at once the bishop 


said :— 

“Tt strikes me that there is something wanting on the 
table.” | 

Madame Magloire, truth to tell, had only laid the abso- 
lutely necessary silver. Now, it was the custom in this house, 
when the bishop had any one to supper, to arrange the whole 
stock of plate on the table,—an innocent display. This 
graceful semblance of luxury was a sort of childishness full of 
charm in this gentle and strict house, and elevated poverty 
to dignity. Madame Magloire took the hint, went out with- 
out a word, and a moment after, the remaining spoons and 
forks glittered on the cloth, symmetrically arranged before 
each of the guests. 





CHAPTER IV 
DETAILS OF CHEESE-MAKING AT PONTARLIER 


ND now, in order to give an idea of what took place at 

table, we cannot do better than transcribe a passage 

from a letter written by Mlle. Baptistine to Madame Bois- 

chevron, in which the conversation between the convict and 
the bishop is recorded with simple minuteness. 


** The man paid no attention to any one; he ate with fright- 
ful voracity, but after supper he said :— 

“*¢ Mr. Priest, all this is much too good for me; but I am 
bound to say that the wagoners who would not let me sup 
with them have better cheer than you.’ 

** Between ourselves, this remark slightly offended me, but 
my brother answered :— 

**¢ They work harder than I.’ 

“* No,” the man continued, ‘they have more money. You 


86 FANTINE 


are poor, as I can plainly see; perhaps you have not even a 
parish. Ah, if Heaven were just, you would have a parish.’ 

‘&lt;&lt; Heaven is more than just,’ said my brother. A moment 
after he added :-— 

“&lt;* Monsieur Jean Valjean, I think you said you were going 
to Pontarlier? ’ 

““*T am compelled to go there.’ Then he continued, ‘I 
must be off by sunrise to-morrow; travelling is hard work, 
for if the nights are cold, the days are hot.’ 

*** You are going to an excellent part of the country,’ my 
brother resumed. ‘ When the Revolution ruined my family, 
I sought shelter first in Franche Comté, and lived there for 
some time by the labour of my hands. I had a good will, 
and found plenty to do. One need only choose. There are 
paper-mills, tanneries, distilleries, oil-mills, wholesale clock 
manufactories, steel-works, copper-works, and at least twenty 
iron-foundries of which the four at Lods, Chatillon, Audin- 
court, and Beure are very large.’ 

“**T am pretty sure I am not mistaken, and that these are 
the names my brother mentioned; then he broke off and ad- 
dressed me: — 

“**My dear sister, have we not some relatives in those 
parts? ’ 

‘“* My answer was, ‘ We used to have some; among others, 
Monsieur de Lucinet, who was pe of the gates at Pontar- 
her, under the old rule.’ 

“** Yes,’ added my brother, ‘ but in ?93 people had no rela- 
tives ; they had only their arms, and so I worked. In the 
country where you are going, Monsieur Valjean, there is a 
truly patriarchal and pleasing trade. My dear sister, I mean 
their cheese manufactories, which they call fruitiéres.”’ 

“‘'Then my brother, while pressing the man to eat, ex- 
plained in their fullest details the fruztiéres of Pontarlier, 
which are divided into two classes,— the large farms, which 
belong to the rich, where there are forty or fifty cows, which 
produce seven to eight thousand cheeses in a summer, and 
the partnership fruitiéres, which belong to the poor. The 


FAN TINE 87 


peasants of the central mountain district keep their cows 
in common and divide the produce. They hire a cheese- 
maker, who is called the grurin; he receives the milk from 
the partners thrice a day, and enters the quantities in a book. 
Cheese-making begins about the middle of April, and the 
cheese-makers drive their cows to the mountains toward mid- 
summer. 

“The man grew animated while eating, and my brother 
made him drink that excellent Mauves wine, which he does 
not drink himself because he says that it is expensive. My 
brother gave him all these details with that easy gayety of 
his which you know, mingling his remarks with graceful ap- 
peals to myself. He dwelt a good deal on the comfortable 
position of the grurin, as if wishful to make the man under- 
stand, without advising him directly and harshly, that it 
would be a refuge for him. One thing struck me: the man 
was what I have told you; well, my brother, during the whole 
of supper and, indeed, of the evening, did not, with the ex- 
ception of some words about the Saviour, when he entered, 
utter a word which could remind this man of what he was, 
or tell him who my brother was. It was apparently a good 
opportunity to give him a little lecture, and to let the bishop 
produce a good effect on the galley-slave. It might have 
seemed to any one else that, having this wretched man in 
hand, it would be right to feed his mind at the same time as 
his body, and to address to him a few reproaches seasoned 
with morality and advice, or at any rate a little commiseration, 
with an exhortation to behave better in the future. My 
brother did not even ask him where he came from, or his 
history; for his fault is contained in his history, and my 
brother appeared to avoid everything which might recall it to 
his mind. This was carried to such a point that at a cer- 
tain moment, when my brother was talking about the moun- 
taineers of Pontarlier, ‘ who had a pleasant task near heaven,’ 
and who, he added, ‘ are happy because they are innocent,’ 
he stopped short, fearing lest there might be in the remark 
something to affect this man unpleasantly. After consider- 


88 FANTINE 


able reflection, I believe I can understand what was going on 
in my brother’s heart; he doubtless thought that this Jean 
Valjean’s misfortune was ever present in his mind, that the 
best thing was to divert him, and make him believe, were it 
only momentarily, that he was a man like the rest, by be- 
having to him as he would to others. Was not this real 
charity! 

“Is there not, my dear lady, something truly evangelical in 
the delicacy, which abstains from all lecturing and allusions ; 
and is it not the truest pity, when a man has a sore point, 
not to touch it at all? It seemed to me that this might be 
my brother’s innermost thought; in any case, what I can 
safely say is, that if he had all these ideas he did not betray 
any of them, even to me. He was from beginning to end 
the same man he is every, night; and he supped with Jean 
Valjean with the same air and in the same way as if he had 
been supping with M. Gédéon le Prevét, or with the parish 
priest. 

“Toward the end, when we had come to the figs, there was 
a knock at the door. It was Mother Gerbaud with her little 
baby in her arms. My brother kissed the child, and bor- 
rowed from me fifteen sous, which I happened to have about 
me, to give to the mother. The man, while this was going 
on, did not seem to pay great attention; he said nothing, and 
seemed very tired. When poor old Mother Gerbaud left, 
my brother said grace, and then said to the man, ‘ You must 
need your bed.? Madame Magloire hastily cleared the table. 
I understood that we must retire in order to let this traveller 
sleep, and we both went upstairs. I, however, sent Madame 
Magloire down a moment later to lay on the man’s bed a 
roebuck’s hide, from the Black Forest, which was in my room, 
for the nights are very cold, and that keeps one warm. It is 
a pity that the skin is old and the hair is wearing off. My 
brother bought it when he was in Germany, at Tottlingen, 
near the source of the Danube, as well as the small ivory-hand- 
dled knife which I use at meals. 

“Madame Magloire came up again almost immediately. 


FANTINE 89 


We said our prayers in the room where the clothes are hung 
to dry, and then retired to our bedrooms without saying a 
word to each other.” 





CHAPTER V 
TRANQUILLITY 


FTER bidding his sister good-night, Monseigneur 
Bienvenu took up one of the silver candlesticks, handed 
the other to his guest, and said :-— 

“¢T will take you to your room, sir.” 

The man followed him. The reader will remember, from 
our description, that the rooms were so arranged that in 
order to reach or leave the oratory, where the alcove was, it 
was necessary to pass through the bishop’s bedroom. As he 
went through this room, Madame Magloire was putting away 
the plate in the cupboard over the bed-head; it was the last 
thing she did every night before retiring. ‘The bishop led 
his guest to the alcove, where a clean bed was prepared for 
him. The man placed the branched candlestick on a small 
table. 

“TI trust you will pass a good night,” said the bishop. 
“ To-morrow morning, before starting, you will drink a glass 
of milk fresh from our cows.” 

“ Thank you, Mr. Priest,” said the man. He had hardly 
uttered these peaceful words when, suddenly, and without any 
transition, he made a strange motion, which would have 
frightened the two old women to death had they witnessed it. 
Even now it is difficult to explain what impelled him at that 
moment. Did he wish to warn or to threaten? Was he sim- 
ply obeying an instinctive impulse, obscure even to himself? 
He suddenly turned to the old man, folded his arms, and, 
fixing on him a savage gaze, he exclaimed hoarsely :-— 


90 FANTINE 


“What! you really lodge me so close to you as that?” He 
broke off, and added with a laugh, in which there was some- 
thing monstrous: ‘“* Have you reflected fully? Who tells 
you that I have not committed a murder? ” 

The bishop answered: ‘* That is God’s concern.” 

Then gravely moving his lips, like a man who is praying 
and speaking to himself, he stretched out two fingers of his 
right hand and blessed the man, who did not bow his head, 
and returned to his bedroom, without turning his head or 
looking behind him. When the alcove was occupied, a large 
serge curtain drawn right across the oratory concealed the 
altar. The bishop knelt as he passed before this curtain, and 
offered up a short prayer; a moment after, he was in his gar- 
den, walking, dreaming, musing, his soul and thoughts en- 
tirely occupied by those grand mysteries which God displays 
at night to eyes that remain open. 

As for the man, he was really so wearied that he did not 
even take advantage of the nice white sheets. He blew out 
the candle with his nostrils, after the fashion of convicts, and 
threw himself in his clothes upon the bed, where he at once 
fell into a deep sleep. Midnight was striking as the bishop 
returned from the garden to his room, and a few minutes 
later everybody in the small house was asleep. 





CHAPTER VI 
JEAN VALJEAN 


OWARD the middle of the night, Jean Valjean awoke. 
He belonged to a poor peasant family of La Brie. In 

his childhood he had not been taught to read, and when he was 
of man’s age he was a pruner at Faverolles. His mother’s 
name was Jeanne Mathieu; his father’s, Jean Valjean, or Vla- 
jean,— probably a nickname and a contraction of Voila Jean. 


FANTINE 91 


Jean Valjean possessed a pensive but not melancholy charac- 
ter, which is peculiar to affectionate natures; but altogether 
he was a dull, insignificant fellow, at least apparently. He 
had lost father and mother when still very young; the 
latter died of a badly managed milk-fever; the former, a 
pruner, like himself, was killed by a fall from a tree. All 
that was left Jean Valjean, was a sister older than himself, 
a widow with seven children, boys and girls. This sister 
brought Jean Valjean up, and so long as her husband was 
alive she supported her brother. When the husband died, 
the oldest of the seven children was eight years of age, the 
youngest, one, while Jean Valjean had just reached his twen- 
ty-fifth year; he took the place of the father, and in his 
turn supported the sister who had reared him. This was done 
simply as a duty, and even rather roughly, by Jean Valjean; 
and his youth was thus expended in hard and ill-paid toil. 
He was never known to have a sweetheart, for he had no time 
for love-making. 

At night he came home tired, and ate his soup without a 
word. His sister, Mother Jeanne, while he was eating, often 
took out of his porringer the best part of his meal,— the 
piece of meat, the slice of bacon, or the heart of the cabbage, 
-—— to give to one of her children; he, still eating, bent over 
the table with his head almost in the soup, and, his long 
hair falling around his porringer and hiding his eyes, pre- 
tending not to see it, and let her do as she pleased. There 
was at Faverolles, not far from the Valjeans’ cottage, on 
the other side of the lane, a farmer’s wife called Marie Claude. 
The young Valjeans, who were always starving, would some- 
times go and borrow a pint of milk, in their mother’s name, 
from Marie Claude, which they drank behind a hedge or in 
some corner, tearing the jug from each other so eagerly that 
the little girls spilled the milk over their aprons. Their 
mother, had she been aware of this fraud, would have severely 
corrected the delinquents ; but Jean enn, coarse and rough 
though he was, paid Marie Claude for the milk behind his 
sister’s back, and the children were not punished. 


92 FANTINE 


He earned in the pruning season eighteen sous a day, and 
besides hired himself out as reaper, labourer, neat-herd, and 
odd man. He did what he could; his sister worked too, but 
what could she do with seven little children? It was a sad 
group, which wretchedness gradually enveloped and choked. 
A hard winter came, Jean had no work, and the family had 
no bread. No bread,— literally none,— and seven children. 

One Sunday evening, Maubert Isabeau, the baker in the 
church square at Faverolles, was just going to bed when he 
heard a violent blow on the grated and glazed front of his 
shop. He ran out in time to see an arm passed through a 
hole made by a fist through the gratings and window-pane; 
a hand seized a loaf, and carried it off. Isabeau rushed to 
the door; the thief ran away at his hardest, but the baker 
caught him up and stopped him. The thief had thrown 
away the loaf, but his arm was still bleeding; it was Jean 
Valjean. 

This took place in 1795. Jean Valjean was brought be- 
fore the courts, charged “‘ with burglary committed with vio- 
lence at night, in an inhabited house.” He had a gun, was 
a splendid shot, and a bit of a poacher, and this injured 
him. There is a legitimate prejudice against poachers, for, 
like smugglers, they trench very closely on brigandage. Still 
we must remark that there is an abyss between these classes 
and the hideous assassins of our cities. ‘The poacher lives 
in the forest; the smuggler in the mountains and on the sea. 
Cities produce ferocious men because they produce corrupt 
men. The forest, the mountain, and the sea produce savage 
men; but, while they develop their fierce side, they do not 
always destroy their humane side. Jean Valjean was found 
guilty, and the terms of the code were explicit. There are in 
our civilization formidable moments; they are those in which 
penal justice decrees a shipwreck. What a mournful minute 
is that in which society withdraws and consummates the irrep- 
arable abandonment of a thinking being! Jean Valjean was 
sentenced to five years at the galleys. 

On April 22, 1796, men were crying in the streets of Paris 


FANTINE 93 


the victory of Montenotte, gained by the general-in-chief of 
the army of Italy, whom the message of the Directory to the 
Five Hundred of 2 Floréal, year IV., calls Buona-Parte; and 
on the same day a heavy gang was put in chains at Bicétre, 
and Jean Valjean formed part of the gang. A former jailer 
of the prison, now nearly ninety years of age, perfectly re- 
members the wretched man who was chained at the end of the 
fourth line, in the north corner of the courtyard. He was 
seated on the ground like the rest, and seemed not at all to 
understand his position, except that it was horrible. It is 
probable that he also was disentangling something excessive 
from amidst the vague ideas of an utterly ignorant man. 
While the bolt of his iron collar was being riveted with heavy 
hammer-blows behind his head, he wept; tears choked him, 
and prevented him from speaking, and he could only manage 
to say from time to time, ‘*I was a pruner at Faverolles.” 
Then, still sobbing, he raised his right hand, and lowered it 
gradually seven times, as if touching seven heads of unequal 
height, and from this gesture it could be guessed that, what- 
ever the crime he had committed, he had done it to feed and 
clothe seven little children. 

He started for Toulon, and arrived there after a journey 
of twenty-seven days in a cart, with the chain on his neck. 
At Toulon he was dressed in the red jacket. All that had 
hitherto been his life, even to his name, was effaced. He 
was no longer Jean Valjean, but No. 24,601. What became 
of his sister, what became of the seven children? Who trou- 
bles himself about that? What becomes of the spray of 
leaves when the young tree is chopped off at the foot? It 
is always the same story. These poor living beings, these 
creatures of God, henceforth without support, guide, or shel- 
ter, went off at random, and were gradually lost in that 
cold fog which swallows up solitary destinies, that mournful 
gloom in which so many unfortunates disappear during the 
sombre progress of the human race. They left the country. 
What had once been the steeple of their village church forgot 
them; what had once been their hedgerow forgot them; and 


94 FANTINE 


after a few years’ stay in the galleys, Jean Valjean himself 
forgot them. In that heart where there had once been a 
wound, there was now a scar; that was all. He only heard of 
his sister once during the whole time he spent at Toulon; 
it was, I believe, toward the end of the fourth year of his 
imprisonment, though I have forgotten in what way the in- 
formation reached him. She was in Paris, living in the Rue 
du Gindre, a poor street, near St. Sulpice, and had only one 
child with her, the youngest, a boy. Where were the other 
six? Perhaps she did not know herself. Every morning she 
went to a printing-office, No. 8 Rue du Sabot, where she 
was a folder and stitcher; she had to be there at six in the 
morning, long before daylight in winter. In the same house 
as the printing-office there was a day-school, to which she 
took the little boy, who was seven years of age; but as she 
went to work at six and the school did not open till seven, 
the boy was compelled to wait in the yard for an hour, in 
winter,— an hour of winter night in the open air. The boy 
was not allowed to enter the printing-office, because it was 
said that he would be in the way. The workmen as they 
passed in the morning saw the poor little fellow seated on 
the pavement, and often sleeping in the darkness, with his 
head on his satchel. When it rained, an old woman, the 
portress, took pity on him; she invited him into her den, 
where there were only a bed, a spinning-wheel, and two chairs, 
and the little fellow fell asleep in a corner, nestling up to the 
cat, to keep him warm. At seven o’clock the school opened 
and the child went in. This is what Jean Valjean was told. 
It was a momentary flash, as though a window had suddenly 
opened upon the destiny of the beings he had loved, and 
then was closed again; he never heard of them more. Noth- 
ing reached him from them; he never saw them again, never 
met them, and we shall not come across them in the course of 
this melancholy tale. 

Toward the end of this fourth year, Jean Valjean’s turn 
to escape came, and his comrades aided him as they always 
do in that sorrowful place. He escaped, and wandered about 


FANTINE 95 


the fields at liberty for two days,—if it is liberty tu be 
hunted down; to turn one’s head at every moment; to start at 
the slightest sound; to be afraid of everything,— of a smok- 
ing chimney, a passing man, a barking dog, a galloping 
horse, the striking of the hour, of day because people see, of 
night because they do not see, of the highway, the path, the 
thicket, and even of sleep. On the evening of the second 
day he was recaptured; he had not eaten or slept for six-and- 
thirty hours. The maritime tribunal added three years to his 
sentence for this crime, which made it eight years. In the 
sixth year, it was again his turn to escape; he tried, but 
did not succeed. He was missing at roll-call, the gun was 
fired, and at night the watchman found him hidden under the 
keel of a ship that was building, and he resisted the prison 
guard who seized him. Escape and rebellion; this case, pro- 
vided for by the special code, was punished by an addition 
of five years, of which two would be spent in double chains. 
Thirteen years. In his tenth year his turn came again, and 
he took advantage of it, but succeeded no better; three years 
for this new attempt, or sixteen years in all. Finally, I 
think it was during his thirteenth year, he made a last at- 
tempt, and only succeeded in being recaptured in four hours; 
three years for these four hours, and a total of nineteen years. 
‘In October, 1815, he was set free; in 1796 he had gone in for 
breaking a window and stealing a loaf. 

Let us make room for a short parenthesis. ‘This is the 
second time that, during his study of the penal question and 
condemnation by the law, the author of this book has come 
across a loaf as the starting-point of the disaster of a destiny. 
Claude Gueux stole a loaf, and so did Jean Valjean; and 
English statistics prove that in London four robberies out of 
five have hunger for their immediate cause. Jean Valjean 
entered the galleys sobbing and shuddering; he left them 
stoically. He entered in despair; he came out gloomy. 
What had taken place in his soul? 


96 FANTINE 


CHAPTER VII 
A DESPERATE MAN’S HEART 


ET us try to tell. 

Society must necessarily look at these things, be- 
cause it creates them. He was, as we have said, an ignorant 
man, but he was not a fool. The light of nature was kindled 
within him, and misfortune, which also has its own clear 
vision, increased the little daylight that existed in his mind. 
Under the stick and the chain in the dungeon, when at work 
beneath the torrid sun of the galleys, or when lying on the 
convict’s plank, he reflected. He constituted himself a court, 
and began by trying himself. He saw that he was not an 
innocent man unjustly punished. He confessed that he had 
committed an extreme and blamable action; that the loaf 
would probably not have been refused him had he asked for 
it; that in any case it would have been better to wait till he 
could get it, ether from pity or by work; and that it was 
not a thoroughly unanswerable argument to say, “Can a 
man wait when he is hungry?” that, in the first place, it is 
very rare for a man to die literally of hunger; next, that, 
unhappily or happily, man is so made that he can suffer long 
and severely, morally and physically, without dying; that 
hence he should have been patient; that it would have been 
better for the poor little children; that it was an act of mad- 
ness for him, a wretched, weak man, violently to collar society 
and to imagine that a man can escape wretchedness by theft; 
that in any case, the door by which a man enters infamy is a 
bad one by which to escape from wretchedness,— and, in 
short, that he had been in the wrong. 

Then he asked himself if he were the only person who had 
been in the wrong in his fatal history; whether, in the first 
place, it was not a serious thing that he, a workman, should 
want for work,— that he, industrious as he was, should want 


FANTINE 97 


for bread; whether, next, when the fault was committed and 
confessed, the punishment had not been ferocious and exces- 
sive, and if there were not more abuse on the part of the law 
in the penalty than there was on the side of the culprit in 
the crime; whether there had not been an excessive weight in 
one of the scales,— that one in which expiation lies ; whether 
the excess of punishment did not efface the crime, and reverse 
the situation by making a victim of the culprit, a creditor of 
the debtor, and definitely placing the right on the side of 
the man who had violated it; whether this penalty, compli- 
cated by successive aggravations for attempts at escape, did 
not eventually become a sort of attack made by the stronger 
on the weaker, a crime of society committed on the individual, 
a crime which was renewed every day, and had lasted for 
nineteen years? He asked himself if human society could 
have the right to make its members suffer equally, on one 
side, from its unreasonable improvidence, on the other, from 
its pitiless foresight, and to hold a poor man eternally between 
a want and an excess,— want of work and excess of punish- 
ment; whether it were not outrageous that society should 
thus treat those of its members who were worst endowed in 
that division of property which is made by chance, and who 
were consequently most worthy of indulgence? 

These questions asked and solved, he passed sentence on 
society and condemned it —to his hatred. He made it re- 
sponsible for the fate he was suffering, and said to himself 
that he would not hesitate to call 1t to account some day. He 
declared that there was no equilibrium between the harm he 
had done and the harm done him; and he came to the con- 
clusion that his punishment was not unjust, but most assur- 
edly iniquitous. Wrath may be wild and absurd; a man may 
be wrongfully irritated; but he is only indignant when he 
has some show of reason somewhere. Jean Valjean felt in- 
dignant.~ And then again, human society had never done 
him aught but harm; he had only seen its wrathful face, 
which is called its justice, and which it shows to those whom 
it es. Men had only laid hands on him to injure him, 


98 FANTINE 


and every contact with them had been a blow. Never, since 
his infancy, since the time of his mother and his sister, had 
he heard a kind word or met a friendly look. From suffering 
after suffering, he gradually attained to the conviction that 
life was war, and that in this war he was the vanquished. As 
he had no weapon but his hatred, he resolved to sharpen it in - 
the galleys and to take it with him when he left. ; 

There was at Toulon a school for the chain-gang, kept by 
Ignorantine Brethren, who imparted elementary instruction to 
those wretches who were willing to learn. He was one of the 
number, and went to school at the age of forty, where he 
learned reading, writing, and arithmetic; he felt that to 
strengthen his mind was to strengthen his hatred. In cer- 
tain cases, instruction and education may serve to eke out 
evil. It is sad to say that after judging society, which had 
caused his misfortunes, he judged Providence, which had made 
society, and condemned it also. Hence, during these nine- 
teen years of torture and slavery, his soul ascended and de- 
scended at the same time; light entered it on one side and 
darkness on the other. As we have seen, Jean Valjean was 
not naturally bad; he was still good when he entered the gal- 
leys. He condemned society, and felt that he was growing 
wicked ; he condemned Providence, and felt that he was grow- 
ing impious. 

Here it is difficult not to meditate for a moment. Can hu- 
man nature be thus utterly transformed? Can man, who is 
created good by God, be made bad by man? Can the soul 
be entirely remoulded by destiny, and become evil if the 
destiny be evil? Can the heart be deformed, and contract in- 
curable ugliness and infirmity under the pressure of dispro- 
portionate misfortune, like the spine beneath too low a roof? 
Is there not in every human soul, was there not in that of 
Jean Valjean especially, a primary spark, a divine element, 
incorruptible in this world, and immortal in the other, which 
good can develop, fan, kindle, and cause to glisten splendidly, 
and which evil can never entirely extinguish? 

These are grave and obscure questions, the last of which 


FANTINE 99 


every physiologist would unhesitatingly have answered in the 
negative, had he seen at Toulon, in those hours of repose 
which were for Jean Valjean hours of revery, this gloomy, 
stern, silent, and pensive galley-slave—the pariah of the 
law, who regarded all men passionately; the condemned of 
civilization, who regarded Heaven with severity — seated with 
folded arms on a capstan bar, with the end of his chain thrust 
into his pocket to prevent it from dragging. We assuredly 
do not deny that the physiological observer would have seen 
an irremedial misery; he would probably have pitied this 
patient of the law, but he would not have even attempted a 
cure; he would have turned away from the caverns of which 
he caught a glimpse in this soul, and, like Dante at the gates 
of the Inferno, he would have erased from this existence that 
word which the finger of God has written on the brow of 
every man — hope! 

Was this state of his soul, which we have attempted to 
analyze, as perfectly clear to Jean Valjean as we have tried 
to render it to our readers? Did Jean Valjean distinctly see 
after their formation, and had he seen distinctly as they were 
formed, all the elements which composed his moral wretched- 
ness? Did this rude and unlettered man clearly comprehend 
the succession of ideas by which he had step by step ascended 
and descended to the gloomy views which had for so many 
years been the inner horizon of his mind? Was he really 
conscious of all that had taken place in him, and all that 
was stirring in him? This we should not like to assert, and, 
indeed, we are not inclined to believe it. Jean Valjean was 
so ignorant that a considerable amount of vagueness neces- 
sarily remained, even after so much misfortune; at times he 
did not know exactly what he felt. Jean Valjean was in 
darkness; he suffered in darkness, and he hated in darkness. 
He lived habitually in this darkness, groping like a blind 
man and a dreamer. At times he was attacked, both in- 
wardly and outwardly, by a shock of passion, a surcharge of 
suffering, a livid flash which illumined his whole soul, and 
suddenly showed him, both before and behind, in the glare 


100 FANTINE 


of a frightful light, the hideous precipices and gloomy per- 
spective of his destiny. When the flash had passed, night 
encompassed him again, and where was he? He no longer 
knew. 

The peculiarity of punishments of this nature,— in which 
nought but what is pitiless, that 1s to say brutalizing, pre- 
vails,— is gradually, and by a sort of stupid transfiguration, 
to transform a man into a wild beast, at times a ferocious 
beast. Jean Valjean’s successive and obstinate attempts to 
escape would be sufficient to prove the strange working of the 
law upon a human soul; he would have renewed these at- 
tempts, utterly useless and mad though they were, as often 
as opportunity offered, without for a moment, thinking of the 
result, or of the experiments already made. He escaped im- . 
petuously, like the wolf that finds its cage open. Instinct 
said to him, “ Run away;” reason would have said, “ Re- 
main,” but, in the presence of so violent a temptation, reason 
disappeared and instinct alone was left. The brute alone 
acted; and when he was recaptured, the fresh severities in- 
flicted on him only served to render him more wild. 

One fact we must not omit to mention is, that he possessed 
a physical strength with which no one in the galleys could 
compete. In paying out a cable or winding a capstan, Jean 
Valjean was equal to four men; he frequently raised and held 
on his back enormous weights, and at times took the place 
of that instrument called a jack, and formerly called orgueil, 
— from which, by the way, the Rue Montorgueil in Paris 
derived its name. His comrades surnamed him Jean the 
Jack. Once, when the balcony of the Town Hall at Toulon 
was being repaired, one of those admirable caryatides by 
Puget which support the balcony became loose and almost. 
fell. Jean Valjean who was on the spot, supported the statue 
with his shoulder, and thus gave the workmen time to come up. 

His agility even exceeded his strength. Some convicts, 
who perpetually dream of escape, eventually make a real sci- 
ence of combined skill and strength; it is the science of the 
muscles. A full course of mysterious statics is daily prac- 


FANTINE 101 


tised by the prisoners,—men forever envious of flies and 
birds. Swarming up a perpendicular surface, and finding a 
resting-place where scarcely a projection was to be seen, was 
child’s play to Jean Valjean. Given a corner of a wall, with 
the tension of his back and legs, with his elbows and heels 
clinging to the rough stone, he would hoist himself as if by 
magic to a third story, and at times would ascend to the 
very roof of the galleys. He spoke little, and never laughed ; 
it needed some extreme emotion to draw from him, once or 
twice a year, that melancholy laugh of the convict, which 1s, 
as it were, the echo of the laughter of a demon. To look at 
him, he seemed engaged in continually gazing at something 
terrible. He was, in fact, absorbed. ‘Through the sickly 
perceptions of an incomplete nature and a crushed intellect, 
he saw confusedly that a monstrous thing was hanging over 
him. In the obscure, dull gloom through which he crawled, 
wherever he turned his head and essayed to raise his eye, 
he saw, with a terror blended with rage, built up above him, 
with frightfully scarped sides, a terrific pile of things, laws, 
prejudices, men, and facts, whose outlines escaped him, whose 
mass terrified him, and which was nothing else but that 
prodigious pyramid which we call civilization. He distin- 
guished here and there in this heaving and shapeless con- 
glomeration,— at one moment close to him, at another on 
distant and inaccessible plains, some vividly illumined group: 
here the jailor and his stick, there the police officer and his 
sword, yonder the mitred archbishop, and at the summit, like 
a sort of sun, the crowned and dazzling emperor. It seemed 
to him as if this distant splendour, far from dissipating his 
night, only rendered it blacker and gloomier. All these laws, 
prejudices, facts, men, and things came and went above him, 
in accordance with the complicated and mysterious movement 
which God imparts to civilization, marching over him, and 
crushing him with something calm in its cruelty, and inex- 
orable in its indifference. Souls which have fallen into the 
lowest depths of all possible misfortune, hapless men lost in 
those limbos into which people no longer look, the reprobates 


102 FAN TINE 


of the law feel on their heads the whole weight of human 
society, which is so formidable to those outside it, so terrific 
to those beneath it. 

In this situation, Jean Valjean thought; and what could be 
the nature of his thoughts? If the grain of corn had its 
thoughts when ground by the mill-stone, it would doubtless 
think as did Jean Valjean. All these things, realities full 
of spectres, phantasmagoria full of reality, at last created for 
him a sort of inner state which is almost indescribable. At 
times, in the midst of his galley-slave toil, he stopped and 
began to think; his reason, at once riper and more troubled 
than of yore, revolted. All that had happened seemed to him 
absurd ; all that surrounded him seemed to him impossible. He 
said to himself that it was a dream; he looked at the overseer 
standing a few yards from him, and he appeared to him a 
phantom, until the phantom suddenly dealt him a blow with 
a stick. Visible nature scarce existed for him; we might al- 
most say with truth that for Jean Valjean there was no sun, 
no glorious summer day, no brilliant sky, no fresh April 
dawn. We cannot describe the gloomy light which illumined 
his soul. 

In conclusion, to sum up all that can be summed up and 
translated into positive results in what we have indicated, we 
will confine ourselves to stating that in nineteen years Jean 
Valjean, the inoffensive pruner of Faverolles, the formidable 
galley-slave of Toulon, had become capable, thanks to the 
manner in which the galleys had fashioned him, of two sorts 
of evil action: first, a rapid, unreflecting bad deed, entirely 
instinctive, and a sort of reprisal for the evil he had suf- 
fered ; and, secondly, of a grave, serious, evil deed, consciously 
argued out and premeditated with the false ideas which such 
a misfortune can produce. His premeditations passed 
through the three successive phases which natures of a cer- 
tain temperament can alone undergo,— reasoning, will, and 
obstinacy. His motives were habitual indignation, bitterness 
of soul, a profound sense of iniquities endured, and a reac- 
tion even against the good, the innocent, and the just, if such 


FANTINE 103 


exist. The starting-point, like the goal, of all his thoughts 
was hatred of human law, that hatred, which, if it be not 
arrested in its development by some providential incident, be- 
comes within a given time a hatred of society, then a hatred 
of the human race, next a hatred of creation, and which is 
expressed by a vague, incessant, and brutal desire to injure 
some one, no matter whom. As we see, it was not unfairly 
that the passport described Jean Valjean as a highly danger- 
ous man. Year by year his soul had withered, slowly but 
fatally. A dry heart must have a dry eye; and when he left 
the galleys, nineteen years had elapsed since he had shed a 
tear. 





CHAPTER VIII 
THE WAVE AND THE SHADOW 


AN overboard! 

What matter! the vessel does not stop; the wind 
blows, and that dark ship must keep her course. She sails 
on. ‘The man disappears, then re-appears; he sinks, and rises 
again to the surface; he calls; he waves his arms, but no one 
hears. The ship, trembling beneath the hurricane, strains 
and works in every timber; the sailors and the passengers do 
not even see the castaway; his wretched head is only a speck 
in the immensity of the billows. 

He hurls cries of despair into the depths around him. 
What a spectre is inat retreating sail! He stares at: it,— 
stares at it with frenzy, as it is Jost in the distance, fades, and 
disappears. He was on board just now, he was one of the 
crew, he moved about the deck like the others, he had his 
share of air and sunlight, he was a living thing. Now what 
has happened? He slipped, he fell, and all is over. He is in 
the monstrous waves, with nothing under his feet but the run- 
ning, rushing water. 


104 FANTINE 


The waves, torn and rent by the wind, are a hideous envi- 
ronment; the swell of the abyss bears him away; the ragged 
spray dashes over his head; populace of waves spits upon 
him; dark depths half swallow him; every time he sinks he 
has glimpses of precipices full of night; frightful forms of 
unknown vegetation seize him, bind his feet, drag him down 
to them; he feels that he is becoming part of the abyss, part 
of the foam; the billows toss him from one to the other; he 
drinks the bitter brine; the cowardly ocean strives to drown 
him, and immensity plays with his agony; it seems as if all 
this water were so much hate. He struggles, however. He 
struggles to save himself, to keep himself afloat; he makes 
an effort, he swims. That paltry force, just now exhausted, 
combats the inexhaustible. Where is the ship? Yonder, 
scarce visible in the pale shadows of the horizon. ‘The storm 
gusts smite him, the foam of every wave overwhelms him; he 
raises his eyes and sees only the livid masses of the clouds. 
In the agony of death, he feels and shares the measureless 
madness of the sea. He is tortured by this madness, he hears 
sounds strange to human ears, which seem to come from the 
other side of the earth, and from some mysterious and terri- 
ble region beyond. ‘There are birds in the clouds, just as 
there are angels high above human sorrows ; but what can they 
do for him? The bird flies, sings, and soars; and he,— he 
has the death-rattle in his throat. He feels himself doubly 
buried in those two infinities: sea and sky,— the one his tomb, 
the other his shroud. Night descends; he has been swimming 
for hours; his strength is at an end. That ship,— that far- 
away thing where there are men,— 1s blotted out; he is alone 
in the awful twilight-gulf. He sinks, he stiffens himself, he 
struggles, he feels below him the monstrous billows of the in- 
visible. He shouts aloud! 

‘“‘There are no more men. Where is God?” he shouts 
aloud. “Help! Help!” he shouts incessantly. Nothing 
on the horizon, nothing in heaven. He implores the expanse 
of waters, the waves, the sea-weed, the shoals; but they are 
deaf. He calls on the tempest to succour, but the imper- 


FANTINE 105 


turbable tempest obeys the Infinite alone. Around him are 
darkness, sea-fog, solitude, stormy and unconscious tumult, 
and the ill-defined furrows of fierce waters. In his breast are 
horror and fatigue, beneath him the abyss without a foot- 
hold. He dreams of the fearful adventures of the corpse in 
the limitless realm of shadow. Cold immeasurable paralyzes 
him, and his hands shrivel up, close, and grasp nothingness. 
Winds, clouds, gusts, breezes, stars, all uesless! What is to 
be done? He abandons himself in his despair, and in his 
weariness chooses death,— lets himself drift and drive; he 
yields, and is whirled forever in the dreary depths that swal- 
low him up. ) 

O implacable march of human society! Lost men and lost 
souls along the road — ocean into which falls all that the law 
lets slip. Disastrous disappearance of help. O moral death! 
The sea is the inexorable social night into which the penal 
code flings its condemned; the sea is infinite wretchedness. 
The soul drifting in its eddies may become a corpse. Who 
will reanimate it? 





CHAPTER IX 
NEW WRONGS 


HEN the hour to quit the galleys came, when Jean 
Valjean heard in his ear the unfamiliar words, “‘ You 

are free,” the moment seemed improbable and unprecedented, 
and a ray of bright light,— of the true light of the living, 
—suddenly penetrated to him; but it soon paled. Jean Val- 
jean had been dazzled by the idea of liberty, and had believed 
in a new life; but he soon saw what sort of liberty it is to 
which a yellow passport is granted. _ And this was encom- 
passed with much bitterness; he had calculated that his earn- 
ings during his stay ir the galleys would amount to one hun- 


106 FANTINE 


dred and seventy-one francs. We are bound to add that he 
had omitted to take into his calculations the forced rest of 
Sundays and holidays, which, during nineteen years, entailed 
a diminution of about twenty-four francs. However this 
might be, the sum was reduced, by various local stoppages, to 
one hundred and nine francs, fifteen sous, which were paid to 
him when he left the galleys. He did not understand it all, 
and fancied that he had been robbed. 

On the day after his liberation, he saw, at Grasse, in front 
of a distillery of orange-flower water, men unloading bales; 
he offered his services, and as the work was of a pressing na- 
ture, they were accepted. He set to work. He was intelli- 
gent, strong, and skilful; he did his best, and his master ap- 
peared satisfied. While he was at work a policeman passed, 
noticed him, asked for his papers, and he was compelled to 
show his yellow passport. ‘This done, Jean Valjean resumed 
his toil. A little while before, he had asked one of the work- 
men what he earned for his day’s work, and the answer was 
thirty sous. At night, as he was compelled to start again 
the next morning, he went to the master of the distillery and 
asked to be paid. ‘The master did not say a word, but gave 
him fifteen sous; and when he protested, the answer was, 
“ That is enough for you.” He insisted; the man looked him 
in the face and said, “* Mind you don’t get into prison.” 

Here again he regarded himself as robbed; society, the 
State, by diminishing his earnings, had robbed him whole- 
sale; now it was the turn of the individual to commit retail 
robbery. Liberation is not deliverance; a man may be freed 
from the galleys, but not from his sentence. This is what 
happened to him at Grasse, and we know how he was treated 
at D . 





FANTINE 107, 


CHAPTER X 
THE MAN AROUSED 


S two o’clock pealed from the cathedral bell, Jean Val- 
jean awoke. What aroused him was that the bed was 
too comfortable. For close on twenty years he had not slept 
in a bed; and, though he had not undressed, the sensation 
was too novel not to disturb his slumbers. He had been 
asleep for more than four hours, and his weariness had worn 
off ; he was not accustomed to grant many hours to repose. 
He opened his eyes and looked into the surrounding dark- 
ness, then he closed them again to sleep once more. When 
many diverse sensations have agitated a day, and when 
various matters preoccupy the mind, a man may sleep, but he 
cannot go to sleep again. Sleep comes more easily than it re- 
turns; and this happened to Jean Valjean. As he could not 
go to sleep again, he began to think. 

It was one of those moments in which the ideas that oc- 
cupy the mind are troubled, and there was a sort of cbscure 
confusion in his brain. His old memories and his newer 
memories crossed each other, and floated hither and thither, 
losing their shape, growing enormously, and then disappear- 
ing suddenly, as if in a troubled and muddy pool. Many 
thoughts occurred to him, but there was one which constantly 
recurred and expelled al]l the rest. This thought we will at 
once mention; he had noticed the six silver forks and spoons 
and the great ladle which Madame Magloire put on the table. 
This plate haunted him; it was there,—a few yards from 
him. When he crossed the adjoining room to reach the one 
in which he now was, the old servant was putting it in a small 
cupboard at the bed-head. He had carefully noted this cup- 
board; it was on the right as you came in from the dining- 
room. The plate was heavy and old; the big soup-ladle was 
worth at least two hundred francs, or double what he had 


108 FANTINE 


earned in nineteen years, though it was true that he would 
have earned more had not the officials robbed him. 

His mind wavered for a good hour in these vacillations with 
which some struggle was most assuredly blended. When three 
o’clock struck he opened his eyes, suddenly sat up, stretched 
out his arm, and felt for his knapsack which he had thrown 
into a corner of the alcove, then let his legs hang, put his 
feet on the floor, and found himself seated on the bed almost 
without knowing how. He remained for a while thought- 
fully in this attitude, which would have had something sinis- 
ter about it to any one who had seen him,— the only wakeful 
person in the sleeping house. All at once he stooped, tock 
off his shoes, and placed them softly on the mat beside the 
bed, then resumed his thoughtful posture and remained mo- 
tionless. In the midst of this hideous meditation the ideas 
which we have indicated incessantly crossed his brain, entered, 
went out, returned, and oppressed him; and then he thought 
also, without knowing why, and with the mechanical persist- 
ency of revery, of a convict he had known at the galleys, 
named Brevet, whose trousers were only held up by a single 
knitted brace. The checkered pattern of that brace inces- 
santly recurred to his mind. He remained in this situation, 
and would probably have remained so till sunrise, had not the 
clock struck the quarter or the half hour. It seemed as if this 
stroke said to him, “To work!” He rose, hesitated for a 
moment and listened; all was silent in the house, and he went 
on tiptoe to the window, through which he peered. The 
night was not very dark; there was a full moon, across which 
heavy clouds were chased by the wind. This produced alter- 
nations of light and shade outside, and in the room a sort of 
twilight; this twilight, sufficient to guide him, but intermit- 
tent in consequence of the clouds, resembled that livid hue 
which falls through a cellar grating over which people are 
continually passing. On reaching the window, Jean Val- 
jean examined it; it was without bars, looked on the garden, 
and was only fastened, according to the fashion of the coun- 
try, by asmall peg. He opened it, but as a cold, sharp breeze 


FANTINE 109 


suddenly entered the room, he closed it again directly. He 
gazed into the garden with that attentive glance which studies 
rather than looks, and found that it was enclosed by a low 
whitewashed wall, easy to climb. Beyond it, at the end of 
the garden, he noticed the tops of trees standing at regular 
distances, which proved that this wall separated the garden 
from a public walk or avenue. 

After taking this glance, he started like a man who has 
made up his mind, walked boldly to the alcove, opened his 
knapsack, fumbled in it, took out something which he laid on 
the bed, put his shoes in one of the pockets, shut it up again, 
placed it on his shoulders, put on his cap, pulled the visor 
down over his eyes, groped for his stick, which he laid on the 
window-sill, then returned to the bed, and resolutely seized the 
object he had laid there. It resembled a short iron bar, 
sharpened at one end like a spear. It would have been hard 
to tell in the darkness for what purpose this piece of iron had 
been fashioned; perhaps it was a crowbar, perhaps it was a 
club. By daylight it could have been seen that it was nothing 
but a miners’ candlestick. ‘The convicts at that day were 
sometimes employed to quarry rock from the lofty hills that 
surround Toulon, and it was not uncommon for them to have 
mining-tools at their disposal. The miners’ candlesticks are 
made of massive iron, and have a point at the lower end, by 
which they are stuck into the rock. He took the candlestick 
in his right hand, and, holding his breath and deadening his 
footsteps, he walked toward the door of the adjoining room,— 
the bishop’s, as we know. On reaching this door he found it 
ajar; the bishop had not shut it. 


110 FANTINE 


CHAPTER XI 
WHAT HE DOES 


EAN VALJEAN listened, but there was not a sound; he 
pushed the door lightly with the tip of his finger, with ‘ 
the furtive, restless gentleness of a cat that wants to get in. 
The door yielded to the pressure, and made an almost im- 
perceptible and silent movement, which slightly widened the 
opening. He waited for a moment, and then pushed the door 
again more boldly. It continued to yield silently, and the 
opening was soon large enough for him to pass through; but 
near the door was a small table which formed an awkward 
angle with it, and barred the entrance. 

Jean Valjean saw the difficulty; the opening must be in- 
creased at all hazards. He made up his mind, and pushed 
the door a third time, more energetically still. This time a 
badly oiled hinge suddenly uttered a hoarse, prolonged squeak 
in the darkness. Jean, Valjean started; the noise smote his 
ear startlingly and terribly, as if it were the trumpet of the 
day of judgment. In the fantastic exaggeration of the first 
minute, he almost imagined that the hinge had become ani- 
mated, suddenly obtained a terrible vitality, and barked like 
a dog to warn and awaken the sleepers. He stopped, shud- 
dering and dismayed, and fell back from tiptoes on his 
heels. The arteries in his temples beat like two forge-ham- 
mers, and it seemed to him that his breath issued from his 
lungs with the noise of the wind roaring out of a cavern. He 
fancied that the horrible clamour of that irritated hinge must 
have startled the whole house like a shock of an earthquake; 
that the door he opened was alarmed and cried for help; the 
old man would rise, the two aged women would shriek, and 
help would come; in less than a quarter of an hour the town 
would be astir, and the police turn out. For a moment he 
believed himself lost. 


FANTINE 111 


He remained where he was, petrified like the pillar of salt, 
and not daring to make a movement. &lt;A few minutes passed, 
the door was wide open. He ventured to look into the room, 
and found that nothing had stirred. He listened; no one 
was moving in the house, the creaking of the rusty hinge had 
not awakened any one. The first danger had passed; still 
there was a fearful tumult within him. But he did not recoil ; 
he had not done so even when he thought himself lost. His 
only thought now was to finish the job as speedily as possible. 
He took a step and entered the bedroom. ‘The room was in a 
state of perfect calm; here and there were confused, vague 
forms, which by daylight were papers, scattered over the 
table, open folios, books piled on a stool, an easy-chair cov- 
ered with clothes, and a prie-dieu, all of which were at this 
moment only dark nooks and patches of white. Jean Valjean 
advanced cautiously and carefully, and avoided coming into 
collision with the furniture. He heard at the end of the room 
the calm and regular breathing of the sleeping bishop. Sud- 
denly he stopped, for he was close to the bed; he had reached 
it sooner than he anticipated. 

Nature at times blends her effects and spectacles with our 
actions with a gloomy and intelligent appropriateness, as if 
wishing to make us reflect. For nearly half an hour a heavy 
cloud had covered the sky, but when Jean Valjean stopped 
at the foot of the bed, this cloud was rent asunder as if ex- 
pressly, and a moonbeam passing through the long window 
suddenly illumined the bishop’s pale face. He was sleeping 
peacefully, and, to protect himself from the cold nights of the 
Lower Alps, was wrapped in a loose garment of brown wool, 
which covered his arms down to the wrists. His head was 
thrown back on the pillow in the easy attitude of repose; his 
hand, adorned with the pastoral ring, and which had done so 
many good deeds, hung over the edge of the bed. His whole 
face was lit up by a vague expression of satisfaction, hope, 
and beatitude,— it was more than a smile and almost a radi- 
ance. His forehead bore the indescribable reflection of an 
invisible light; for the soul of a just man contemplates a 


112 FANTINE 


mysterious heaven during sleep. A reflection of this heaven 
was cast over the bishop, but it was at the same time a 
luminous transparency; for the heaven was within him, and 
was his conscience. 

When the moonbeam was cast over this inner light, the 
sleeping bishop seemed surrounded by a glory, which was 
veiled, however, by an ineffable half-light. The moon in the 
heavens, the slumbering landscape, the peaceful garden, the 
quiet house, the hour, the silence, the moment, added some- 
thing solemn and unspeakable to this man’s venerable repose, 
and cast a majestic and serene halo round his white hair and 
closed eyes, his face, in which all was hope and confidence, his 
aged head, and his infantile slumbers. ‘There was something 
almost divine in this unconsciously august man. Jean Val- 
jean stood in the shadow with his crowbar in his hand, mo- 
tionless and terrified by this luminous old man. He had never 
seen anything like this before, and such confidence horrified 
him. ‘The moral world has no grander spectacle than this,— 
a troubled, restless conscience, which is on the point of com- 
mitting a bad action, contemplating the sleep of a just man. 

This sleep in such isolation, and with a neighbour like him- 
self, possessed a sublimity which he felt vaguely, but imper- 
iously. No one could have said what was going on within 
him, not even himself. In order to form any idea of it, we 
must imagine the most violent things in the presence of the 
gentlest. Even in his face nothing could have been distin- 
guished with certainty, for it displayed a sort of haggard as- 
tonishment. He looked at the bishop, that was all; but what 
his thoughts were it would be impossible to divine. It was 
evident that he was moved and shaken, but of what nature was 
his emotion? His eye was not once removed from the old 
man, and the only thing clearly revealed by his attitude and 
countenance was a strange indecision. It seemed as if he were 
hesitating between two abysses,— the one that saves and the 
one that destroys; he was ready to dash out the bishop’s brains 
or to kiss his hand. At the expiration of a few minutes his 
left arm slowly rose to his cap, which he took off ; then his arm 





“Jean Valjean stood in the shadow with his crowbar in his hand, 
motionless and terrified by this luminous old man.”’ 


Les Miserables. Fantine: Page 112, 


24 


7. 





FANTINE 11s 


fell back with the same deliberation, and Jean Valjean re- 
sumed his contemplation, his cap in his left hand, his crow- 
bar in his right, and his hair standing erect on his savage 
head. : 

The bishop continued to sleep peacefully beneath that ter- 
rific gaze. A moonbeam rendered the crucifix over the man- 
telpiece dimly visible; 1t seemed to open its arms to both of 
them, with a blessing for one and pardon for the other. All 
at once Jean Valjean put on his cap again, walked rapidly 
by the bed without looking at the bishop, and went straight 
to the cupboard. He raised his iron candlestick as if to force 
the lock, but as the key was in it, he opened it, and the first 
thing he saw was the plate-basket, which he seized. He hur- 
ried across the room, regardless of the noise that he made, re- 
entered the oratory, opened the window, seized his stick, be- 
strode the window-sill, put the silver in his knapsack, threw 
away the basket, leaped into the garden, bounded over the wall 
like a tiger, and fled. 


CHAPTER XII 
THE BISHOP AT WORK 


HE next morning at sunrise Monseigneur Bienvenu was 
walking about the garden, when Madame Magloire 
came running toward him in a state of great alarm. | 
“¢ Monseigneur, Monscigneur, Monseigneur ! ” she screamed, 
“does your Eminence know where the silver-basket is? ” 
** Yes,”’ said the bishop. 
“The Lord be praised,” she continued; “ I did not know 
what had become of it.” 
The bishop had just picked up the basket in a flower-bed, 
and now handed it to Madame Magloire. “ Here it is,’? he 
said. 


114 FANTINE 


‘Well!’ she said, “ there is nothing in it; where is the 
silver? ” | 

‘“‘ Ah!” the bishop replied, “‘ so it is the silver that troubles 
your mind: Well, I do not know where that is.” 

“‘ Good Lord! it is stolen, and that man who came last night 
is the robber.” 

In a twinkling, with all the vivacity of alarm, Madame 
Magloire had run to the oratory, entered the alcove, and re- 
turned to the bishop. He was stooping down and sighing as 
he looked at a cochlearia, whose stem the basket had broken 
in falling on the bed. He raised himself on hearing Madame 
Magloire scream: — 

‘“‘ Monseigneur, the man has gone! the silver is stolen!” 

As she uttered this exclamation, her eyes fell on a corner 
of the garden where there were signs of climbing; the coping 
of the wall had been torn away. 

“That is the way he went! He leaped into Cochefilet 
Lane. Ah, what a scoundrel! he has stolen our silver! ” 

The bishop was silent for a moment, then raised his earnest 
eyes, and said gently to Madame Magloire: — 

‘In the first place, was that silver ours? ” 

Madame Magloire was speechless; there was another inter- 
val of silence, after which the bishop continued : — 

“Madame Magloire, I have long wrongfully held back this 
silver, which belonged to the poor. Who was this person? 
Plainly a poor man.” 

“Good gracious!” returned Madame Magloire, “ I do not 
care for it, nor does your sister ; but we feel for Monseigneur. 
What will you eat with now? ” 

The bishop looked at her in amazement. ‘‘ Why, are there 
no pewter plates to be had? ” 

Madame Magloire shrugged her shoulders. ‘ Pewter 
smells ! ” 

“Then iron! ” 

Madame Magloire made an expressive grimace. “ Iron 
tastes.” 

“* Well, then,” said the bishop, ** wood! ” 


FANTINE 115 


A few minutes later he was breakfasting at the same table 
at which Jean Valjean sat on the previous evening. While 
breakfasting Monseigneur Bienvenu remarked gayly to his 
sister, who said nothing, and to Madame Magloire, who grum- 
bled under her breath, that spoon and fork, even of wood, 
are not required to dip a piece of bread in a cup of milk. 

‘‘ What an idea!” said Madame Magloire, as she went 
backward and forward, “ to take in a man like that, and lodge 
him by one’s side. And what a blessing it is that he only 
stole! Oh, Lord! the mere thought makes a body shudder.” 

As the brother and sister were leaving the table, there was 
a knock at the door. 

‘** Come in,” said the bishop. 

The door opened, and a strange group appeared on the 
threshold. Three men were holding a fourth by the collar. 
The three men were police officers, the fourth was Jean Val- 
jean. The officer in command of the party came in, and 
walked up to the bishop with a military salute. 

** Monseigneur,” he said. 

At this word Jean Valjean, who was crushed and dejected, 
raised his head with a stupefied air. 

** Monseigneur! ”? he muttered ; ‘‘ then he is not the priest.” 

*‘ Silence!” said an officer. “This gentleman is the 
bishop.” 

Meantime Monseigneur Bienvenu advanced as rapidly as 
his great age permitted. 

“Ah! there you are,” he said, looking at Jean Valjean. 
“I am glad to see you. Why, how is this? I gave you the 
candlesticks too, which are also silver, and will fetch two hun- 
dred francs. Why did you not take them away with the rest 
of the plate? ” 

Jean Valjean opened his eyes and looked at the bishop with 
an expression which no human tongue could describe. 

*“* Monseigneur,” said the officer, “ what this man told us 
was true then? We met him, and as he looked as if he were 
running away, we arrested him. He had this plate —” 

“And he told you,” the bishop interrupted, with a smile, 


116 FANTINE 


“ that it was given to him by a good old priest at whose house 
he passed the night? I see it all. And you brought him 
back here? It is a mistake.” 

‘In that case,” continued the officer, ‘* we can let him go? ” 

“Of course,” answered the bishop. 

The officers loosed their hold of Jean Valjean, who tottered 
back. 

“Ts it true that I am at liberty? ” he said, in an almost 
inarticulate voice, and as if speaking in his sleep. 

“‘ Yes, you are free; don’t you understand?” said an of- 
ficer. 

““ My friend,” continued the bishop, “‘ before you go, take 
your candlesticks.” 

He went to the mantlepiece, fetched the two candlesticks, 
and handed them to Jean Valjean. The two women watched 
him without a word, without a sign, without a look that could 
disturb him. Jean Valjean trembled in every limb; he took 
the candlesticks mechanically, and with a bewildered air. 

‘“‘ Now,”’ said the bishop, “ go in peace. By the bye, when 
you return, my friend, it is unnecessary to pass through the 
garden, for you can always enter and depart, day and night, 
by the front door, which is only latched.” 

Then, turning to the officers, he said: — 

** Gentlemen, you may retire.” 

They did so. Jean Valjean looked as if he were on the 
point of fainting; the bishop walked up to him and said in a 
low voice :— 

“Never forget that you have promised me to use this 
money to become an honest man.” 

Jean Valjean, who had no recollection of having prom- 
ised anything, stood silent. The bishop, who had laid a 
stress on these words, continued solemnly :-— 

“* Jean Valjean, my brother, you no longer belong to evil, 
but to good. I have bought your soul of you. I withdraw 


it from black thoughts and the spirit of perdition, and give it 
to God.” 


FANTINE 117 


CHAPTER XIII 
LITTLE GERVAIS 


EAN VALJEAN left the town as if running away; he 
walked hastily across the fields, taking such roads and 
paths as offered themselves, without perceiving that he was 
constantly retracing his steps. He wandered thus the entire 
morning, and though he had eaten nothing, he did not feel 
hungry. He was a prey to countless novel sensations; he 
felt a sort of rage, but he did not know against whom. He 
could not have said whether he was touched or humiliated; at 
times a strange tenderness came over him, against which he 
strove, and to which he opposed the hardness learned in the 
last twenty years. This condition exhausted him, and he — 
saw with alarm that the frightful calm, which the injustice 
of his misfortune had produced, was giving way. He asked 
himself what would take its place; at times he would have 
preferred being in prison and with the police, and that things 
had not happened thus; for that would have agitated him 
less. Although the season was advanced, there were still here 
and there in the hedges a few laggard flowers, whose smell 
recalled childhood’s memories as he passed them. These recol- 
lections were almost unendurable, for it was so long since they 
had recurred to him. 

Indescribable thoughts congregated within him the whole 
day through. When the sun was setting and casting long 
shadows on the ground from every little pebble, Jean Valjean 
sat behind a bush in a large, tawny, and utterly deserted 
plain. ‘There were only the Alps on the horizon; there was 
not even the steeple of a distant village. Jean Valjean might 
be about three leagues from D , and a path that crossed 
the plain ran a few paces from the bushes. In the midst of 
his meditations, which would have contributed no little to 
render his rags formidable to any one who saw him, he heard 





118 FANTINE 


a merry sound. He turned his head and beheld a little 
Savoyard about ten years of age coming along the path, 
singing, with his hurdy-gurdy at his side and his marmot- 
box on his back. He was one of those gentle, cheerful lads 
who go from country to country, displaying their knees 
through the holes in their trousers. 

As he sang, the lad stopped every now and then to play 
at pitch and toss with some coins he held in his hand, which 
were probably his entire fortune. Among these coins was a 
two-franc piece. The lad stopped by the side of the bushes 
without seeing Jean Valjean, and threw up the handful of 
sous, all of which he had hitherto always caught skilfully on 
the back of his hand. This time the two-franc piece fell, and 
rolled through the bushes toward Jean Valjean. Jean Val- 
jean placed his foot upon it; but the boy had looked after 
the coin, and seen him. He did not seem surprised, but 
walked straight up to the man. It was an utterly lonely 
spot; as far as the eye could reach, there was no one on the 
plain or the path. Nothing was audible, save the faint cries 
of a swarm of birds of passage passing through the sky, at 
an immense height. The boy had his back to the sun, which 
wove golden threads in his hair, and suffused Jean Valjean’s 
savage face with a purplish, blood-red hue. 

“ Sir,’ said the little Savoyard, with that childish confi- 
dence which is composed of ignorance and innocence, “ my 
coin? ” 

“ What is your name? ” said Jean Valjean. 

“¢ Little Gervais, sir.” 

“ Be off!’ said Jean Valjean. 

“Give me my coin, if you please, sir.” 

Jean Valjean hung his head, but said nothing. 

The boy began again: — 

“My two-franc piece, sir.” 

Jean Valjean’s eye remained fixed on the ground. 

“‘ My coin,” cried the boy; ‘‘ my silver piece, my money!” 

It seemed as if Jean Valjean did not hear him, for the boy 
seized the collar of his blouse and shook him, and at the 


FANTINE 119 


same time made an effort to remove the iron-shod shoe placed 
on his coin. 

‘I want my money, my forty-sous piece.” 

The boy began to cry, and Jean Valjean raised his head. 
He was still sitting on the ground, and his eyes were misty. 
He looked at the lad with a sort of amazement, then stretched 
forth his hand to his stick, and shouted in a terrible voice, 
*¢ Who is there? ” 

“I, sir,” replied the boy,—“ little Gervais. Give me back 
my two francs, if you please. Take away your foot, sir, if 
you please.” Then he grew angry, though so little, and 
almost threatening. ‘‘ Come, will you lift up your foot? Lift 
up your foot, I say!” 

** Ah, it is you still,” said Jean Valjean; and springing 
up, with his foot still on the coin, he added, ‘* Will you be off 
or not? ” 

The startled boy looked at him, then began to tremble 
from head to foot, and after a few moments of stupor ran 
off at full speed, without daring to look back or to utter a 
cry. Still, when he had got a certain distance, want of breath 
forced him to stop, and Jean Valjean in the midst of his 
revery could hear him sobbing. In a few minutes the boy 
had disappeared. ‘The sun had set, and darkness collected 
around Jean Valjean. He had eaten nothing all day, and 
was probably in a fever. He had remained standing, and 
had not changed his attitude since the boy ran off. His 
breath heaved his chest at long and irregular intervals; his 
eye, fixed ten or twelve yards ahead, seemed studying with 
profound attention the shape of an old fragment of blue 
earthenware which had fallen in the grass. Suddenly he 
started, for he felt the night chill; he pulled his cap over his 
forehead, mechanically tried to cross and button his blouse, 
took a step forward, and stooped to pick up his stick. 

At this moment he perceived the two-franc piece, which 
his foot had half-buried in the turf, and which glistened 
among the pebbles. It had the effect of a galvanic shock 
upon him. ‘“ What is this?” he muttered. He fell back 


120 FANTINE 


three paces, then stopped, unable to take his eye from the 
spot his foot had trodden a moment before, as if the thing 
glistening there in the darkness had been an open eye riveted 
upon him. In a few moments he dashed convulsively at the 
coin, picked it up, and looked out into the plain, glancing in 
every direction, and shuddering like a terrified wild beast in 
search of shelter. / 

He saw nothing; night was falling, the plain was cold and 
indistinct, and heavy violet mists rose in the twilight. He 
said, “Oh!” and set out rapidly in the direction in which 
the lad had gone. After going some thirty yards, he stopped, 
looked, and saw nothing ; then he shouted with all his strength, 
“ Little Gervais, little Gervais!” He paused, and waited, 
but there was no response. ‘The country was deserted and 
gloomy, and he was surrounded by space. ‘There was nothing 
but darkness in which his gaze was lost, and silence in which 
his voice was lost. An icy breeze was blowing, and imparted 
to things around a sort of mournful life. The bushes shook 
their little thin arms with incredible fury; they seemed to be 
threatening and pursuing some one. 

He walked onward, and then began to run; but from 
time to time he stopped, and shouted into the solitude with 
the most fearful and agonizing voice imaginable, “ Little 
Gervais, little Gervais!” Assuredly, if the boy had heard 
him, he would have felt frightened, and not have shown him- 
self; but the lad was doubtless a long way off by this time. 
The convict met a priest on horseback, to whom he went up 
and said :-— 

‘“‘ Mr. Priest, have you seen a lad pass? ” 

‘“* No,” replied the priest. 

“A lad of the name of ‘ Little Gervais? ’ ” 

‘“‘ T have seen nobody.” 

The convict took two five-franc pieces from his pouch and, 
handed them to the priest. 

‘Mr. Priest, this is for your poor. He was a boy about 
ten years old, with a marmot, I think, and a hurdy-gurdy, 
——a Savoyard, you know.” 


FANTINE 121 


“I did not see him.” 

“Can you tell me if there is any one of the name of 
Little Gervais in the villages about here? ” 

‘If it is as you say, my good fellow, the lad is a stranger. 
Many of them pass this way. We know nothing of them.” 

Jean Valjean snatched two more five-franc pieces from 
his bag and gave them to the priest. 

‘For your poor,” he said; then added wildly, ‘“ Mr. 
Priest, have me arrested; I am a robber.” 

The priest urged on his horse, and rode away in great 
alarm, while Jean Valjean set off running in the direction 
he had first taken. He went on for a long distance, looking, 
calling, and shouting, but he met no one else. Twice or thrice 
he ran across the plain to something that appeared to be a 
person lying or sitting down; but he only found heather, or 
rocks level with the ground. At last he stopped where three 
paths met; the moon had risen; he looked far off, and called 
out for the last time, “ Little Gervais, little Gervais, little 
Gervais!” His shout died away in the mist, without even 
awakening an echo. He muttered again, “ Little Gervais,’’ 
in a weak and almost inarticulate voice, but it was his last ef- 
fort. His knees suddenly gave way under him as if an invisi- 
ble power were crushing him beneath the weight of a bad 
conscience. He fell exhausted on a large stone, with his 
hands clenched in his hair, his face on his knees, and shrieked, 
“I am a wretch!” ‘Then his heart melted, and he began to 
weep; 1t was the first time for nineteen years. 

When Jean Valjean quitted the bishop’s house, he was 
lifted out of his former thoughts, and could not account for 
what was going on within him. He hardened himself against 
the angelic deeds and gentle words of the old man: ‘ You 
have promised me to become an honest man. I buy your 
soul; I withdraw it from the spirit of perverseness, and give 
it to God.” This incessantly recurred to him, and he op- 
posed to this celestial kindness that pride which is the for- 
tress of evil within us. He felt instinctively that this priest’s 
forgiveness was the greatest and most formidable assault by 


122 FANTINE 


which he had yet been shaken; that his obduracy would be 
permanent if he resisted this clemency; that if he yielded 
he must renounce that hatred with which the actions of 
other men had filled his soul for so many years, and which 
pleased him; that this time he must either conquer or be 
vanquished ; and that the struggle, a colossal and final strug- 
gle, had begun between his wickedness and that man’s good- 
ness. 

In the presence of all these lights, he walked on like a 
drunken man. While he went on thus with haggard eye, 
had he any distinct perception of what the result of his ad- 
venture at D might be? Did he hear all those mys- 
terious murmurs which warn or importune the mind at certain 
moments of life? Did a voice whisper in his ear that he had 
just passed through the most solemn hour of his destiny; 
that no middle course was now left him; and that if he were 
not henceforth the best of men he would be the worst; that 
he must now rise higher than the bishop, or sink lower than 
the galley-slave; that if he wished to be good he must become 
an angel; and that if he wished to remain wicked he must 
become a monster? . 

Here we must again ask the question we have already asked: 
Had he any confused mental shadow of all this? Assuredly, 
as we have said, misfortune educates the intellect; still it is 
doubtful whether Jean Valjean were in a state to draw the 
conclusions we have formed. If these ideas reached him, he 
had a glimpse of them rather than saw them; and they only 
succeeded in throwing him into an indescribable and almost 
painful trouble. On leaving that shapeless black thing which 
is called the galleys, the bishop had hurt his soul, in the same 
way that too brilliant a light would have hurt his eyes on 
coming out of darkness. 

The future life, the possible life, which presented itself 
to him, all pure and radiant; filled him with tremor and anx- 
iety, and he no longer knew how he really stood. Like an 
owl that suddenly witnessed a sunrise, the convict had been 
dazzled, and, as it were, blinded by virtue. 





FANTINE 123 


One thing which he did not suspect, is certain, however,— 
that he was no longer the same man. All was changed in 
him; and it was no longer in his power to get rid of the fact 
that the bishop had spoken to him and taken his hand. While 
in this mental condition he met Little Gervais, and robbed 
him of his two francs. Why? He certainly could not ex- 
plain it. Was it the final and supreme effort of the evil 
thoughts which he had brought from the galleys, a remnant 
of impulse, a result of what is called in statics ‘* acquired 
momentum”? It was this, and was perhaps also even less 
than this. Let us say it simply: it was not he who robbed,— 
it was not the man, but the brute beast that through habit and 
instinct stupidly placed its foot on the coin, while the intel- 
lect was struggling with such novel and extraordinary sen- 
sations. When the intellect woke again and saw this brutish 
action, Jean Valjean recoiled with agony, and uttered a cry 
of horror. It was a curious phenomenon, and one only possi- 
ble in his present situation, that, in robbing the boy of that 
money, he committed a deed of which he was no longer 
capable. 

However this may be, this last bad action had a decisive 
effect upon him; it suddenly darted through the chaos which 
filled his mind and dissipated it, placed on one side the dark 
mists, on the other the light, and acted on his soul, in its 
present condition, as certain chemical re-agents act upon a 
troubled mixture, by precipitating one element and clarifying 
another. At first, before even examining himself or reflect- 
ing, he wildly strove to find the boy again and return his 
money ; then, when he perceived that this was useless and im- 
possible, he stopped in despair. When he exclaimed, “ I am 
a wretch!” he saw himself as he really was, and was already 
so separated from himself that he fancied himself merely a 
phantom, and that he had there before him, in flesh and blood, 
cudgel in hand, his blouse on his back, his knapsack full of 
stolen objects, the frightful galley-slave, Jean Valjean, with 
his resolute and gloomy face, and his mind full of hideous 
schemes. 


124 FANTINE 


As we have remarked, excess of misfortune had made him 
to some extent a visionary, and this, therefore, was a sort 
of vision. He really saw that Jean Valjean with his sinister 
face, and almost asked himself who this man was who so 
horrified him. His brain was in that violent and yet fright- 
fully calm stage when the revery is so deep that it absorbs 
reality. He contemplated himself, so to speak, face to face; 
and at the same time he saw through this hallucination, in a ° 
mysterious depth, a light which he at first took for a torch. 
On looking more attentively at this light which appeared to 
his conscience, he perceived that it had a human shape, and 
that the torch was the bishop. His conscience examined in 
turn the two men standing before him,— the bishop and Jean 
Valjean. By one of those singular effects peculiar to an 
ecstasy of this nature, the more his revery was prolonged, the 
taller and more brilliant the bishop appeared, while Jean 
Valjean grew less, and faded out of sight. At length he 
disappeared and the bishop alone remained, filling the wretched 
man’s soul with magnificent radiance. 

Jean Valjean wept for a long time. He wept hot tears, 
and sobbed with more weakness than a woman, more terror 
than a child. While he wept, the light grew brighter in his 
brain,— an extraordinary light, at once ravishing and terri- 
ble. His past life, his first fault, his long expiation, his out- 
ward brutishness, his inward hardness, his liberation, accom- 
panied by so many plans of vengeance, what had happened 
at the bishop’s, the last thing he had done, the robbery.of the 
boy (a crime the more cowardly and monstrous because it 
took place after the bishop’s forgiveness),— all this re- 
curred to him, but in a light which he had never before seen. 
He looked at his life, and it appeared to him horrible; at his 
soul, and it appeared to him frightful. Still a soft light was 
shed over both, and he fancied that he saw Satan in the light 
of paradise. 

How many hours did he weep thus? What did he do 
afterward? Whither did he go? No one ever knew. It 
was stated, however, that on that very night the mail-carrier 


FANTINE 125 


from Grenoble, who reached D at about three a. m., as he 
passed through the street where the bishop’s palace stood, 
saw a man kneeling on the pavement in the attitude of prayer 
in front of Monseigneur Bienvenu’s door. 





BOOK III 


IN THE YEAR 1817 


CHAPTER I 
THE YEAR 1817 


OUIS XVIII., with a certain royal assurance not desti- 
tute of pride, entitled the year 1817 the twenty-second 

of his reign. It is the year in which M. Bruguiére de Sorsum 
was known to fame. All the wig-makers’ shops, hoping for 
powder and the return of the royal bird, were daubed with 
azure and fleurs-de-lis. Those were the innocent days when 
Count Lynch sat every Sunday as church-warden at St. 
Germain-des-Prés in the dress of a peer of France, with his 
red ribbon, his long nose, and that majestic profile peculiar 
to a man who has done a brilliant deed. The brilliant deed 
done by M. Lynch was having, when mayor of Bordeaux, sur- 
rendered the town rather prematurely on March 12, 1814, 
to the Duke d’Angouléme; hence his peerage. In 1817, fash- 
ion buried little boys of the age of six and seven beneath vast 
morocco leather caps with ear-flaps much resembling Esqui- 
maux fur bonnets. The French army was dressed in white, 
like the Austrian; the regiments were called legions, and 
bore the names of departments instead of numbers. Na- 
poleon was at St. Helena; and as England refused him green 
cloth, he had his old coats turned. In 1817 Pellegrini sang, 
and Mile. Bigottini danced, Potier reigned, and Odry was 
not yet known. Madame Saqui had succeeded Forioso. 


126 


FANTINE 127 


There were still Prussians in France. Delalot was a per- 
sonage. Lepitimacy had just asserted itself by cutting off 
the hand and then the head of Pleignier, Carbonneau, and 
Tolleron. Prince Talleyrand, lord high chamberlain, and 
the Abbé Louis, minister of finance, looked at each other and 
laughed like two augurs. Both had celebrated on July 14, 
1790, the mass of federation in the Champ de Mars. Tal- 
leyrand had read it as bishop, Louis had served it as deacon. 
In 1817, in the side alleys of that same Champ de Mars, could 
be seen large wooden cylinders, lying in the wet and rotting 
in the grass, painted blue, with traces of eagles and bees, 
which had lost their gilding. These were the columns which 
two years before supported the Emperor’s balcony at the 
Champ de Mai. They were partly blackened by the bivouac 
fires of the Austrians encamped near Gros Caillou; two or 
three of the columns had disappeared in the bivouac fires, and 
warmed the coarse hands of the imperial troops. The Field 
of May had this remarkable thing about it, that it was held 
in the month of June, and on the Field of March. In 1817, 
two things were popular,—the Voltaire-Touquet and the 
“‘ charter ” snuff-box. The latest Parisian sensation was the 
crime of Dautun, who threw his brother’s head into the foun- 
tain on the Flower Market. People at the admiralty were 
beginning to grow anxious because there was no news from 
that fatal frigate the “‘ Medusa,” which was destined to cover 
Chaumareix with shame and Géricault with glory. Colonel 
Selves went to Egypt and became Soliman Pacha. The pal- 
ace of Thermes, in the Rue de la Harpe, served as a shop 
for a cooper. On the platform of the octagonal tower of 
the Hotel de Cluny could still be seen the small wooden hut 
which had served as an observatory for Messier, naval as- 
tronomer under Louis XVI. The Duchess de Duras was 
reading her unpublished romance of “ Ourika” to three or 
four friends, in her boudoir furnished in sky-blue satin by 
X. The N’s were scratched off the Louvre, the Austerlitz 
bridge abdicated, and was called the King’s Garden bridge,— 
a double enigma, which at once disguised the Austerlitz bridge 


128 FANTINE 


and the Jardin des Plantes. Louis XVIII., while annotating 
Horace with his finger-nail, was troubled by heroes who made 
themselves emperors, and cobblers who made _ themselves 
dauphins; he had two objects of anxiety,— Napoleon and 
Mathurin Bruneau. The French academy offered as subject 
for the prize essay, ‘The happiness produced by study.” 
M. Bellart was officially eloquent; and in his shadow could be 
seen sprouting that future Advocate-General de Broé, dedi- 
cated to the sarcasms of Paul Louis Courier. There was a 
false Chateaubriand called Marchangy, while waiting till 
there should be a false Marchangy called D’Arlincourt. 
*“* Claire d’Albe ” and “ Malek Adel ” were masterpieces ; and 
Madame Cottin was declared the first writer of the age. The 
Institute erased from its lists the academician Napoleon Bona- 
parte. A royal decree constituted Angouléme a naval school ; 
for, as the Duke d’Angouléme was lord high admiral, it was 
evident that the city from which he derived his title possessed 
de jure all the qualifications of a seaport ; if not, the monarch- 
ical principle would be invaded. In the council of ministers 
the question was discussed whether the wood-cuts represent- 
ing mountebanks, which adorned Franconi’s posters and 
caused street scamps to congregate, should be tolerated. M. 
Paér, author of “‘ Agnese,” a square-faced man with a wart 
on his chin, directed the private concerts of the Marchioness 
de Sassenaye in the Rue de la Ville d’Evéque. All the young 
ladies were singing “ The Hermit of Saint Avelle,” words 
by Edmond Géraud. * The Yellow Dwarf” was trans- 
formed into “ The Mirror.” The Café Lemblin stood up 
for the Emperor against the Café Valois, which supported 
the Bourbons. The Duke de Berry, at whom Louvel already 
gazed from the darkness, had just been married to a princess 
of Sicily. It was a year since Madame de Staél had died. 
The Life-guards hissed Mlle. Mars. The large papers were 
all small; their size was limited, but their liberty was great. 
The * Constitutionnel ” was constitutional, and the “ Mi- 
nerva’”’ called Chateaubriand, Chateaubriant; this ¢ made the 
city laugh heartily, at the expense of the great writer. Pros- 


FANTINE 129 


tituted journalists insulted the proscripts of 1815 in mer- 
cenary journals. David had no longer any talent, Arnault 
any wit, Carnot any probity. Soult never gained a battle. 
It was true that Napoleon was no longer a genius. Every- 
body knows that it is rare for letters sent by post to reach 
an exile, for the police make it a religious duty to intercept 
them. The fact is not new, for Descartes, when banished, 
complained of it. David having displayed some temper in a 
Belgian paper at not receiving letters written to him, this 
seemed very amusing to the royalist journals, which ridiculed 
the proscribed, man. ‘The use of the words regicides or vot- 
ers, enemies or allies, Napoleon or Bonaparte, separated two 
men more widely than an abyss. All persons of common sense 
were agreed that the era of revolutions was eternally closed 
by Louis XVIII., surnamed “ the Immortal Author of the 
Charter.” On the platform of the Pont Neuf, the word 
‘* Redivivus ”” was carved on the pedestal which was awaiting 
the statue of Henri IV. At No. 4 Rue Therese, Piet was 
making the first plan for his Convention to consolidate the 
monarchy. ‘The leaders of the Right said in grave complica- 
tions, “* We must write to Bacot.”? Messrs. Canuel, O’Ma- 
hony, and de Chappedelaine were sketching, under the covert 
approval of Monsieur, what was destined to be at a later 
date ‘‘the conspiracy of the Bord de l’eau.” The “ Black 
Pin” was plotting. Delaverderie was coming to an under- 
standing with Trogoff. Decazes, a rather liberally minded 
man, was in the ascendant. Chateaubriand stood every 
morning at his window, No. 27 Rue St. Dominique, in trous- 
ers and slippers, a handkerchief over his gray hair, with his 
eyes fixed on a mirror, and a case of dentist’s instruments open 
before him, cleaning his teeth, which were splendid, while he 
dictated “‘' The Monarchy according to the Charter ” to his 
secretary, Pilorge. Critics in authority preferred Lafon to 
Talma. De Feletz signed A; Hoffman signed Z. Charles 
Nodier was writing “ Therese Aubert.” Divorce was abol- 
ished. Lyceums were called colleges. Collegians, with a 
gold \ lain on their collar, fought about the king of 


130 FANTINE 


Rome. The counter-police of the castle denounced to her 
Royal Highness Madame, the portrait, everywhere exhibited, 
of the Duke d’Orléans, who looked much handsomer in his 
uniform of colonel-general of hussars than the Duke de Berry 
did in his uniform as colonel-general of dragoons, which 
was a serious annoyance. The city of Paris had the dome 
of the Invalides regilded at its own expense. Serious-minded 
men asked themselves what De Trinquelague would do in 
such and such a case. Clausel de Montals differed on cer- 
tain points from Clausel de Coussergues; De Salaberry 
was not satisfied. Picard, the comedian, who belonged to the 
Academy of which Moliére was not a member, was playing 
‘The Two Philiberts ” at the Odeon, on whose facade could 
still be distinctly read: ‘THEATRE pe LUImPperatTrice, al- 
though the letters had been torn down. People were taking 
sides for or against Cugnet de Montarlot. Fabvier was 
factious; Bavoux was revolutionary; Pelicier, the publisher, 
brought out an edition of Voltaire with the title, “* The Works 
of Voltaire, Member of the Academy.” ‘* That will catch 
purchasers,” said the simple publisher. It was the general 
opinion that Charles Loyson would be the genius of the age. 
Envy was beginning to snap at him,—a sure sign of glory; 
and the following line was written about him: 


“Even when Loyson steals, we feel that he has paws.” 


As Cardinal Fesch refused to resign, M. de Pins, arch- 
bishop of Amasia, administered the diocese of Lyons. The 
quarrel about the Dappes valley began between Switzerland 
and France through a memorial of Captain Dufour, who has 
since become a general. Saint Simon, utterly ignored, was 
building up his sublime dream. There were in the Academy 
of Sciences a celebrated Fourier whom posterity has forgot- 
ten, and in some obscure garret a Fourier whom the future 
will remember. Lord Byron was beginning to startle the 
world; a note to a poem by Millevoye announced him to 
France in these terms, “un certain Lord Baron.” David 
d’Angers was trying to work in marble. The Abbé Caron 


FANTINE 131 


spoke in terms of praise to a select audience in the Alley of. 
the Feuillantines of an unknown priest called Felicité Robert, 
who at a later date became Lamennais. &lt;A thing that smoked 
and splashed on the Seine with the noise of a swimming dog, 
went and came under the Tuileries windows from the Pont 
Royal to the Pont Louis XV.: it was a mechanism not worth 
much, a sort of plaything, the idle dream of a mad inventor, 
a utopia,—a steamboat. The Parisians looked at this usce- 
less thing with indifference. M. de Vaublanc, reformer of 
the Institute by a revolutionary measure, and distinguished 
author of several academicians, after making them, could not 
succeed in becoming one himself. The Faubourg St. Ger- 
main and the Pavillon Marson desired to have Delavau for 
prefect of police on account of his piety. Dupuytren and 
Récamier quarreled in the amphitheatre of the school of 
medicine, and threatened each other with their fists, about 
the divinity of the Saviour. Cuvier, with one eye on Genesis 
and the other on Nature, was striving to please bigoted re- 
action by reconciling fossils with texts, and making mastodons 
flatter Moses. Francois de Neufchateau, the praiseworthy 
cultivator of the memory of Parmentier, was making a thou- 
sand efforts to have “ pommes de terre” ' pronounced “ par- 
mentiére,” but did not succeed. The Abbé Gregoire, ex- 
bishop, ex-Conventionalist, and ex-senator, gained in royalist 
polemics the title of the “ infamous Gregoire.” The expres- 
sion “ gained the title”? was denounced by Royer Collard as 
a neologism. Under the third arch of the Pont de Jena, the 
new stone which was used two years before to stop the hole 
made by Blucher to blow up the bridge could still be recog- 
nized by its whiteness. Justice summoned to her bar a man 
who, on seeing Count d’Artois enter Notre Dame, said aloud, 
“‘Sapristi! I regret the days when I saw Napoleon and 
Talma enter the Bal-Sauvage arm in arm,’— seditious re- 
marks, punished with six months’ imprisonment. 

Traitors displayed themselves unblushingly. Some who 
had gone over to the enemy on the eve of a battle, did not 

1 Potatoes, introduced by Parmentier. 


132 FANTINE 


conceal their reward, but walked immodestly in the sunshine 
with the cynicism of wealth and dignities; deserters from 
Ligny and Quatre Bras, well rewarded for their turpitude, 
openly displayed their monarchical devotion. 

Such are a few recollections of the year 181%, now for- 
gotten. History neglects nearly all these details, and can- 
not do otherwise; as the infinity would overwhelm it. Still 
these details, wrongly called trivial— there are no trivial 
facts in humanity, or little leaves in vegetation,— are useful, 
for the face of the ages is composed of the physiognomy of 
years. 

In this year 1817 four young Parisians played a capital 
joke. 


CHAPTER II 
A DOUBLE QUARTET 


HESE Parisians came, one from Toulouse, the second 
from Limoges, the third from Cahors, the fourth 
from Montauban, but they were students, and thus Parisians ; 
for to study in Paris is to be born in Paris. These young 
men were insignificant; we have all seen just such fellows,— 
four every-day specimens, neither good nor bad, neither wise 
nor ignorant, neither geniuses nor idiots; handsome, with that 
charming April which is called twenty years. They were 
four Oscars, for at that period Arthurs did not yet exist. 
“Burn for him the perfumes of Araby,” said the romance. 
* Oscar advances: Oscar, I shall behold him!” People had 
just emerged from Ossian; the elegant world was Scandi- 
navian and Caledonian; the pure English style was not des- 
tined to prevail till a later date, and the first of the Arthurs, 
Wellington, had only just won the battle of Waterloo. 
The names of these Oscars were Felix Tholomyés, of Tou- 
louse ; Listolier, of Cahors; Fameuil, of Limoges, and Blache- 
velle, of Montauban. Of course each had a mistress,— 


FANTINE 183 


Blachevelle loved Favourite, so called because she had been to 
England; Listolier adored Dahlia, who had taken the name 
of a flower for her nick-name; Fameuil idolized Zephine, short 
for Josephine; while Tholomyés had Fantine, called the 
Blonde, from her magnificent sunny hair. Favourite, Dahlia, 
Zephine, and Fantine were four exquisitely pretty girls, radi- 
ant and sweet, though somewhat plebeian. They had not en- 
tirely laid down their needles; and, though disturbed by their 
love affairs, their faces still bore traces of the serenity of toil, 
and their souls, of that flower of honesty which in a woman 
survives the first fall. One of the four was called “ the 
young one,” because she was the youngest, and one called 
“the old one,” although only three-and-twenty. To con- 
ceal nothing, the first three were more experienced, more reck- 
less, and had flown farther into the tumult of life than Fan- 
tine the Fair, who still retained her first illusions. 

Dahlia, Zephine, and especially Favourite, could not have 
said the same. ‘There was already more than one episode 
in their scarce-begun romance, and the lover who was called 
Adolphe in the first chapter became Alphonse in the second, 
and Gustave in the third. Poverty and coquetry are two 
fatal counsellors,— one scolds, the other flatters; and the 
beautiful daughters of the people have them whispering in 
both ears. These badly guarded souls listen, and hence come 
their falls, and the stones hurled at them. ‘They are crushed 
by the splendour of all that is immaculate and inaccessible. 
Alas! if the Jungfrau were starving? Favourite, having 
been to England, was admired by Zephine and Dahlia. She 
had a home of her own from an early age. Her father was 
a brutal, boasting, old professor of mathematics, unmarried, 
and still giving lessons in spite of his age. ‘This professor, 
when a young man, had one day seen a chambermaid’s gown 
catch on a fender; he fell in love with this accident, and 
Favourite was the result. She met her father from time to 
time, and he bowed to her. One morning, an old woman with 
a hypocritical look came into her room, and said, * Do you 
not know me, miss?” “No.” ‘Iam your mother.” Then 


134 FANTINE 


the old woman opened the cupboard, ate and drank, sent for 
a mattress she had, and installed herself. This mother, who 
was cross and pious, never spoke to Favourite, sat for hours 
without saying a word, breakfasted, dined, and supped for 
half a dozen, and spent her evenings in the porter’s lodge, 
where she abused her daughter. 

What drew Dahlia toward Listolier, toward others per- 
haps, toward idleness, was having such pretty pink nails. 
How could she make such nails work? A girl who would 
remain virtuous must have no pity on her hands. 

As for Zephine, she conquered Fameuil by her little saucy, 
coaxing way of saying “ Yes, sir.” The young men were 
comrades, the girls friends. Such intrigues are always ac- 
companied by such friendships. 

Goodness and philosophy are two distinct things; and this 
is proved by the fact that, after making all due allowance 
for these little irregular households, Favourite, Zephine, and 
Dahlia were philosophic girls, and Fantine a good girl. 
Good, it will be said, and how about Tholomyés? Solomon 
would reply that love is part of wisdom. We confine our- 
selves to saying that Fantine’s love was a first love, a single 
love, a faithful love. She was the only one of the four who 
was addressed familiarly by one man alone. 

Fantine was one of those beings who spring up from the 
dregs of the people; issuing from the lowest depths of social 
darkness, she bore on her brow the stamp of the anonymous 
and the unknown. She was born at M. sur M.; of what 
parents? Who could say? She had never known either 
father or mother. She was called Fantine, and why Fan- 
tine? She was never known by any other name. At the 
time of her birth, the Directory was still in existence. She 
had no family name, as she had no family; and no Christian 
name, as the Church was abolished. She accepted the name 
given her by the first passer-by, who saw her running bare- 
footed about the streets. She received a name as she re- 
ceived the rain from heaven when it fell upon her head. She 
was called little Fantine, and no one knew any more. This 


FANTINE 135 


human creature came into the world in that way. At the age 
of ten Fantine left the town, and went into service with farm- 
ers in the neighbourhood. At the age of fifteen she went 
to Paris, “to seek her fortune.” Fantine was pretty, and 
remained pure as long as she could. She was a charming 
blonde, with handsome teeth. She had gold and pearls for 
her dower; but the gold was on her head, and the pearls in 
her mouth. 

She worked for a livelihood; and then she loved, still for 
the sake of living, for the heart is hungry too. She loved 
Tholomyés. It was a pastime for him, but a passion with 
her. ‘The streets of the Latin Quarter, which are thronged 
with students and grisettes, saw the beginning of this dream. 
Fantine, in the labyrinth of the Pantheon Hill where so many 
adventures begin and end, long shunned Tholomyés, but in 
such a way as to meet him constantly. There is a way of 
avoiding which resembles seeking,—in a word, the eclogue 
took place. 

Blachevelle, Listolier, and Fameuil formed a sort of group, 
of which Tholomyés was the head; for it was he who had 
the wit. Tholomyés was the student of antiquity. He was 
rich, for he had an income of four thousand francs, a splen- 
did scandal on the Montagne St. Genevieve. ‘Tholomyés was 
a man of the world, thirty years of age, and in a bad state of 
preservation. He was wrinkled, and had lost teeth; and he 
had an incipient baldness, of which he himself said without 
sorrow: ‘ A skull at thirty, a billiard-ball at forty.” He 
had but a poor digestion, and one of his eyes was permanently 
watery. But as his youth faded, his gayety became brighter ; 
he substituted jests for his teeth, joy for his hair, irony for 
his health, and his weeping eye laughed incessantly. He was 
battered, but still blooming. His youth, which made ready 
to depart long before its time, had beaten an orderly retreat, 
bursting with laughter, and only the fire was visible. He 
had had a piece refused at the Vaudeville theatre, and wrote 
occasional verses now and then. In addition, he doubted 
everything in a superior way, which is a great power in the 


136 FANTINE 


eyes of the weak. Hence, being ironical and bald, he was the 
leader. “Iron” is an English word. We wonder whether, 
‘“‘jrony ” is derived from it. | 

One day Tholomyés took the other three aside, made 
an oracular gesture, and said, “* Fantine, Dahlia, Zephine, and 
Favourite have been asking us for nearly a year to give them: 
a surprise, and we solemnly promised to do so. ‘They are 
always talking about it, especially to me. Just as the old 
women of Naples cry to Saint Januarius, * Yellow face, per- 
form thy miracle!’ our beauties incessantly say, ‘ Tholomyés, 
when will you bring forth your surprise?”® At the same 
time our parents are writing to us,— a double nuisance. The 
moment appears to me to have arrived, so let us talk it over.” 

Upon this, Tholomyés lowered his voice, and mysteriously 
uttered something so amusing that a mighty and enthusiastic 
laugh burst from four mouths simultaneously, and Blache- 
velle exclaimed, “ That is an idea!” A tap-room full of 
smoke presenting itself, they went in, and the remainder of 
their conference was lost in tobacco-clouds. ‘The result of 
the gloom was a brilliant pleasure party which took place on 
the following Sunday, to which the four young men invited 
the girls. 





CHAPTER III é 
FOUR AND FOUR 


T is difficult to form an idea at the present day of what a 
pleasure party of students and grisettes was like four- 
and-forty years ago. Paris has no longer the same suburbs. 
The face of what may be termed circum-Parisian life has com- 
pletely changed during half a century. Where there was 
the cuckoo! there is now a railway carriage; where there 
was the cutter, there is now the steamer; people talk of 
1 Old-fashioned cab. : 


' FANTINE 137 


Fécamp now as people did in those days of St. Cloud. Paris 
of 1862 is a city which has France for its suburbs. 

The four couples conscientiously accomplished all the rustic 
follies possible at that time. It was a bright, warm, sum- 
mer day; they rose at five o’clock; then they went to St. 
Cloud in the stage-coach, looked at the dry cascade, and ex- 
claimed, ‘* That must be grand when there is water!” break- 
fasted at the Téte Noire, where Castaing had not yet put 
up; played at ring-toss under the Quincunx of trees near the 
great fountain; ascended the Diogenes lantern; gambled for 
macaroons at the roulette-board by the Sévres bridge; culled 
posies at Puteaux; bought reed-pipes at Neuilly; ate apple- 
tarts everywhere, and were perfectly happy. The girls prat- 
tled and chattered like escaped linnets; they were quite 
wild, and every now and then gave the young men little taps. 
Oh, youthful intoxication of life! Adorable years! The 
wings of the dragon-fly flutter. Oh, whoever you may be, 
do you remember? Have you ever walked in the woods, re- 
moving the branches for the sake of the pretty head that . 
comes behind you? Have you slid laughing down a damp 
slope, with a beloved woman who holds your hand, and cries, 
“Oh, my new boots, what a state they are in!” Let us 
say at once that the merry annoyance of a shower was spared 
the happy party, although Favourite had said on starting, 
with a magisterial and maternal air, * The slugs are walk- 
ing about the paths; that is a sign of rain, children.” 

All four were distractingly pretty. A good old classic 
poet, then renowned, the Chevalier de Labouisse,— a worthy 
man who had an Eléanore,— wandering that day under the 
chestnut-trees of St. Cloud, saw them pass at about ten in the 
morning, and exclaimed, “ There is one too many;” he was 
thinking of the Graces. Favourite, the girl who was three- 
and-twenty, the old one, ran on in front under the big green 
branches, leaped over ditches, strode madly across bushes, and 
presided over the gayety with the spirit of a young fawn. 
Zephine and Dahlia, whose beauty chanced to be such that 
each enhanced and completed the other, did not separate, 


188 FANTINE 


though more through a coquettish instinct than through 
friendship, and, leaning upon each other, they assumed Eng- 
lish attitudes. The first Keepsakes had just come out; mel- 
ancholy was the fashion for women, as Byronism was at a 
later date for men, and the hair of the tender sex began to 
droop loosely. Zephine and Dahlia wore their hair in rolls. 
Listolier and Fameuil, who were engaged in a discussion 
about their professors, were explaining to Fantine the differ- 
ence between M. Delvincourt and M. Blondeau. Blachevelle 
seemed to have been created expressly to carry Favourite’s 
shabby imitation India shawl on Sundays. 

Tholomyés came last, dominating the group. He was very 
gay, but he seemed born to rule; there was something dicta- 
torial in his joviality. His principal adornment was a pair 
of nankeen trousers, cut in the shape of elephants’ legs, with 
leathern straps. He had a mighty rattan worth two hundred 
francs in his hand, and, as he was quite reckless, a strange 
thing called a cigar in his mouth. Nothing being sacred to 
him, he smoked. “That Tholomyés is astounding,” the 
others were wont to say with veneration. ‘‘ What trousers! 
what energy!” 

As for Fantine, she was the personification of joy. Her 
splendid teeth were plainly made for laughter. She carried 
in her hand, more frequently than on her head, her little 
straw bonnet, with its long white strings. Her thick light 
hair, inclined to wave, constantly falling down and having 
to be done up continually, seemed made for the flight of Gala- 
tea under the willows. Her rosy lips prattled enchantingly. 
The corners of her mouth, voluptuously raised, as in the 
antique masks of Erigone, seemed to encourage boldness; but 
her long, shadowy lashes were discreetly drooped upon the 
seductiveness of the lower part of the face, as if to com- 
mand respect. Her entire dress had something harmonious 
and attractive about it. She wore a dress of mauve barége, 
little buskin slippers, with strings crossed over her fine, open- 
worked stockings, and that sort of muslin spencer, a Mar- 
seilles invention, whose name, “ canezou,’— a corruption of 


FANTINE 189 


quinze Aott, as pronounced at the Cannebiére,— signifies fine 
weather and noonday heat. ‘The other three, who were less 
timid, as we said, wore low-necked dresses, which in summer 
are very graceful and attractive, with bonnets covered with 
flowers; but by the side of this bold attire Fantine’s canezou, 
with its transparency, indiscretion, and reticence, at once con- 
cealing and displaying, seemed a provocative invention of de- 
cency. ‘The famous court of Love, presided over by the Vis- 
countess of Cette with the sea-green eyes, would probably have 
bestowed the prize for coquettishness on this canezou, which 
competed for that of chastity. The simplest things are fre- 
quently the cleverest. 

Dazzling from a front view, delicate from a side view, with 
dark-blue eyes, heavy lids, small arched feet, wrists and 
ankles admirably formed, the white skin displaying here 
and there the azure veins, with the fresh childish cheek, and 
robust neck of the Juno of Egina, shoulders apparently 
modelled by Coustou, a voluptuous dimple in their centre, 
visible through the muslin; a gayety tempered by revery; a 
sculptural and exquisite being,— such was Fantine. You 
could trace beneath the ribbons and finery a statue, and within 
the statue a soul. Fantine was beautiful without being too 
conscious of it. ‘Those rare dreamers, the mysterious priests 
of the beautiful, who silently confront everything with per- 
fection, would have seen in this little working-girl the ancient 
sacred euphony, through the transparency of Parisian grace! 
This daughter of the shadow was thoroughbred. She was 
beautiful in two ways,—style and rhythm. Style is the 
form of the ideal; rhythm is its movement. 

We have said that Fantine was joy itself; she was also 
modesty personified. Any one who watched her closely would 
have seen through all this intoxication of youth, the season, 
and love, an invincible expression of restraint and modesty. 
She always looked slightly astonished, and this chaste aston- 
ishment is the distinguishing shade between Psyche and 
Venus. Fantine had the long white delicate fingers of the 
Vestal who stirs the sacred fire with a golden bodkin. Though 


140 FANTINE 


she would have refused nothing to Tholomyés, as we shall 
soon see, her face when in repose was supremely virginal. A 
stern and almost austere dignity suddenly invaded it at cer- 
tain times; and nothing was so singular and affecting as to 
see gayety so rapidly extinguished, and contemplation suc- 
ceed cheerfulness without any transition. 'This sudden gray- 
ity, which was at times strongly marked, resembled the dis- 
dain of a goddess. Her forehead, nose, and chin had that 
equilibrium of outline which is distinct from the equilibrium 
of proportion, and produces harmony of the face; in the 
characteristic space between the base of the nose and the 
upper lip, she had that imperceptible and charming curve, 
that mysterious sign of chastity, which made Barbarossa fall 
in love with a Diana found in the ruins of Iconium. Love is 
a fault; be it so; but Fantine was innocence floating on the 
surface of the fault. 





CHAPTER IV 
THOLOMYES IS SO MERRY AS TO SING A SPANISH SONG 


| cae day seemed composed of dawn; all nature seemed 

to be having a holiday, and to be laughing. The 
flower-beds of St. Cloud exhaled perfume; the breeze from the 
Seine faintly stirred the leaves; the branches beckoned in 
the wind; the bees plundered the jessamine; a madcap swarm 
of butterflies settled on the ragwort, the clover, and the 
wild oats; in the august park of the king of France there 
was a pack of vagabonds, the birds. The four happy couples 
enjoyed the sun, the fields, the flowers, and the trees. And 
in this community of paradise, three of the girls, while sing- 
ing, talking, dancing, chasing butterflies, picking bindweed, 
wetting their stockings in the tall grass, fresh, madcap, but 
not dissolute, received kisses from all in turn. Fantine alone 





FAN TINE 141 


was shut off by her dreamy, shy resistance, and she alone 
loved. ‘ You always look strange,” Favourite said to her. 

Such are joys. Such passages of happy couples are a 
profound appeal to life and nature, and bring caresses and 
light out of everything. Once upon a time there was a fairy, 
who made fields and trees expressly for lovers; hence the 
eternal hedge school of lovers, which is forever beginning 
afresh, and will last so long as there are hedges and scholars. 
Hence the popularity of spring among thinkers; the patri- 
cian and the pedler, the duke and the pettifogger, people of 
the court and people of the town, as they were formerly 
called, are all subjects of this fairy. People laugh and chase 
each other. There is the brilliancy of an apotheosis in the 
air, for what a transfiguration is love! Notary’s clerks are 
gods. And then the little shrieks, pursuits through the grass, 
waists caught by surprise, that chattering which is so melodi- 
ous, that adoration which breaks out in the pronunciation of a 
word, cherries torn from lips by neighbouring lips, pretty 
girls sweetly squandering their charms,— all this is glorious! 
People believe that it will never end; philosophers, poets, 
artists, behold these ecstasies, and know not what to do, they 
are so dazzled by them. ‘‘ The departure for Cythera!” ex- 
claims Watteau; Lancret, the painter of the middle classes, 
sees his trades-people flying away in the blue sky; Diderot 
stretches out his arms to all these love affairs and d’Urfé 
mixes up Druids with them. 

After breakfast the four couples went to what was then 
called the King’s Square, to see a plant newly arrived from 
the Indies, whose name we have forgotten, but which at that 
time attracted all Paris to St. Cloud; it was a strange, pretty 
shrub, with a tall stem, whose numerous branches, fine as 
threads, and leafless, were covered with a million of small 
white rosettes, which made it look like a head of hair swarm- 
ing with flowers; there was always a crowd around it, ad- 
miring it. After inspecting the shrub, Tholomyés exclaimed, 
‘I will pay for donkeys!” and, after making a bargain with 
the donkey-man, they returned by Vanvres and Issy. At the 


142 FANTINE 


latter place an incident occurred; the park, a national estate 
held at this time by Bourguin, the contractor, was accident- 
ally open. They passed through the gates, visited the lay fig- 
ure hermit in his grotto, and tried the mysterious effect of 
the famous cabinet of mirrors,— a wanton trap, worthy of a 
satyr who had become a millionaire, or of Turcaret metamor- 
phosed into Priapus. They bravely pulled the large swing 
fastened to the two chestnut-trees celebrated by the Abbé de 
Bernis. While swinging the ladies in turn, producing, amid 
general laughter, a flying of skirts worthy of Greuze, the 


Toulousan Tholomyés, who was somewhat of a Spaniard, as 


Toulouse is the cousin of Tolosa, sang to a melancholy tune 
the old gallega, which was probably inspired by the sight of a 
pretty girl swinging between two trees :— 


“Soy de Badajoz 
Amor me llama 
Toda mi alma 
Es en mis ojos 
Porque ensefias 
A tuas pierfias.” 


Fantine alone declined to swing. 

“I do not like people to be so affected,” Favourite mut- 
tered rather sharply. 

On giving up the donkeys, there was fresh pleasure; the 
Seine was crossed in a boat, and from Passy they walked to the 
Barriére de Etoile. They had been afoot since five in the 
morning; but no matter! ‘ There is no such thing as weari- 
ness on Sunday,” said Favourite; “‘ on Sundays fatigue does 
not work.” At about three o’clock the four couples, wild 
with delight, turned into the Montagnes Russes,! a singular 
structure, which at that time occupied the heights of Beaujon, 
and whose waving line could be seen over the trees of the 
Champs Elysées. From time to time Favourite exclaimed :— 

*““ Where is the surprise? I insist on the surprise.” 

** Have patience,” answered Tholomyés. 


1 An artificial coast, popular with the people abroad. 


FANTINE 143 


CHAPTER V, 
AT BOMBARDA’S 


HE Russian mountains exhausted, they thought about 
dinner; and the radiant eight, at length somewhat 
weary, ran aground at Bombarda’s coffee-house, an off-shoot 
established in the Champs Elysées by the famous Bombarda, 
whose sign could be seen at that time in the Rue de Rivoli 
near the Passage Delorme. 

A large but ugly room, with an alcove and a bed at the 
end (owing to the crowded state of the houses on Sundays, 
they were compelled to put up with it); two windows from 
which the quay and river could be viewed through the elm- 
trees; a magnificent autumn sun illumining the windows; two 
tables,— on one of them a triumphal mountain of bouquets, 
mixed up with hats and bonnets, at the other, four couples 
seated round a joyous mass of dishes, plates, bottles, and 
glasses, pitchers of beer, mingled with wine bottles ; very little 
order on the table, and some amount of disorder under it. 


“They made beneath the table 
A noise, a clatter of feet that was abominable.” 


as Moliére says. Such was the state at half-past four in the 
afternoon of the pastoral which began at five in the morn- 
ing; the sun was setting, and appetite was satisfied. 

The Champs Elysées, full of sunshine and people, were all 
light and dust,—two things of which glory is composed. 
The horses of Marly, those neighing marbles, reared amid 
a golden cloud. Carriages came and went; a squadron of 
splendid body-guards, with the trumpeter at their head, rode 
down the Neuilly avenue; the white flag, tinged with pink by 
the setting sun, floated above the dome of the Tuileries. The 
Place de la Concorde, which had again become the Place 
Louis XV., was crowded with merry promenaders. Many 


144 | FANTINE 


wore the silver fleur-de-lis hanging from a white, watered rib- 
bon, which, in 1817, had not entirely disappeared from but- 
ton-holes. Here and there, in the midst of applauding 
crowds, little girls were singing a Bourbon jig, very cele- 
brated at that time, intended to crush the Hundred Days, and 
which had a chorus of,— 


“Send back our father from Ghent, 
Send back our father.” 


Groups of suburbans, dressed in their Sunday clothes, some 
wearing fleur-de-lis like the townspeople, were scattered over 
the Squares, playing at ring-toss, or riding in merry-go- 
rounds ; others were drinking ; some printers’ apprentices wore 
paper caps, and their laughter was loud. All was radiant; 
it was a time of undeniable peace, and of profound royalist 
security ; it was a period when a private and special report 
of Chief of Police Anglés to the king, closed with these lines: 
“‘ All things duly considered, sire, there is nothing to fear 
from these people. ‘They are as careless and indolent as cats, 
and though the lower classes in the provinces are stirring, 
those in Paris are not. They are all little men, sire, and it 
would take two of them to make one of our grenadiers. 
There is nothing to fear from the populace of the capital. 
It is remarkable that their height has decreased during the 
last fifty years, and the people of the suburbs of Paris are 
shorter than they were before the Revolution. They are not 
dangerous, and, in a word, are good-tempered rabble.” 

Chiefs of police do not believe it possible for a cat to be 
changed into a lion; it is so, however, and that is the miracle 
of the people of Paris. The cat, so despised by Count 
Anglés, possessed the esteem of the Republics of old,— it 
was the incarnation of liberty in their eyes; and as if to serve 
as a pendant to the Minerva Apteros of the Pirzeus, there was 
in the public square of Corinth a colossal bronze statue of a 
cat. The simple police of the Restoration had too favour- 
able an opinion of the people of Paris; they are not such 
good-tempered rabble as they are supposed to be. The Pari- 





FANTINE 145 


sian is to the Frenchman what the Athenian is to the Greek: 
no one sleeps sounder than he; no one is more frankly frivo- 
lous and idle than he; no one can pretend to forget so well 
as he,— but he must not be trusted. He is apt at every kind 
of carelessness ; but when there is glory at the end of it, he 
is wonderful for every sort of fury. Give him a pike, and 
he will make August 10; give him a musket, and you will 
have Austerlitz. He is the support of Napoleon, and the re- 
source of Danton. If the country is in danger, he enlists; if 
liberty is imperilled, he tears up the pavement. His hair, full 
of wrath, is epic; his blouse assumes the folds of a chlamys. 
Take care; for of the first Rue Grenetat he comes to, he will 
make Caudine forks. If the hour strikes, this suburban 
grows in stature; the little man arises, and his eye is terrible, 
his breath becomes a tempest, and from his weak chest issues 
a blast strong enough to uproot the Alps. It was through 
this class of Parisian that the Revolution, joined with armies, 
conquered Europe. He sings, and that is his delight; pro- 
portion his song to his nature, and you shall see! So long as 
he has no burden but the ** Carmagnole,”’ he will merely over- 
throw Louis XVI.; but let him sing the ‘* Marseillaise,”’ and 
he will deliver the world. 

After writing this note on the margin of Count Anglés’s re- 
port, we will return to our four couples. The dinner, as we 
said, was drawing to a close. 





CHAPTER VI 
MUTUAL ADORATION 


OVE talk and table talk are equally indescribable; for 
the first is a cloud, the second smoke. Fantine and 
Dahlia were humming a tune, Tholomyés was drinking, 
mop tine laughing, Fantine smiling, Listolier was blowing a 


146 FANTINE 


penny trumpet bought at St. Cloud, Favourite was looking 
tenderly at Blachevelle and saying :— 

‘“‘ Blachevelle, I adore you.” 

This led Blachevelle to ask :-— 

“What would you do, Favourite, if I ceased to love you? ” 

“J?” exclaimed Favourite. ‘ Oh, do not say that, even 
in fun! If you ceased to love me, I would run after you, 
claw you, scratch you, throw water over you, and have you 
arrested.” 

Blachevelle smiled with the voluptuous fatuity of a man 
whose self-esteem is tickled. 

Favourite went on: ‘“ Yes, I would call the police! Oh, 
I should be horribly put out, you scamp!” 

Dahlia, still eating, whispered to Favourite through the 
noise :— 

‘“* You seem to be very fond of your Blachevelle? ” 

** I detest him,” Favourite answered in the same key, as she 
seized her fork again. ‘‘ He is miserly, and I prefer the lit- 
tle fellow who lives opposite to me. He is very nice, that 
young man; do you know him? It is easy to see that he wants 
to be an actor, and I am fond of actors. So soon as he comes 
in, his mother says, ‘ Oh, good heavens, my peace is gone; 
there he goes with his noise; my dear boy, you give me a. 
headache ;’ because he goes about the house, into the garrets 
as high as he can get, and sings and shouts so that he can 
be heard in the streets. He already earns twenty sous a day 
in a lawyer’s office by scribbling nonsense. He is the son 
of a former precentor at St. Jacques du Haut Pas. Ah! he 
adores me to such a pitch that one day when he saw me making 
batter for pancakes, he said to me, ‘ Mamselle, make fritters 
of your gloves, and I will eat them.’ Only artists can say 
things like that. Ah! he is very nice, and I feel as if I 
should fall madly in love with the little fellow. No matter, 
I tell Blachevelle that I adore him; what a falsehood, eh, 
what a falsehood!” 

After a pause, Favourite continued :— 

“You see, Dahlia, I am sad. It has done nothing but 





FANTINE 147 


rain all summer; the wind irritates me; Blachevelle is ex- 
cessively mean; there are hardly any green peas in the mar- 
ket,— one does not know what to eat; I have the spleen, as 
the English say, for butter is so dear, and then, you see, it 1s 
horrid that we should have to dine in a room with a bed in it, 
and that disgusts me with life.” 





CHAPTER VII 
THE WISDOM OF THOLOMYES 


T length, when all were singing noisily, or talking all to- 
gether, Tholomyés interfered. 

“ Let us not talk haphazard or too quickly,” he exclaimed. 
‘““We must meditate if we desire to be striking; too much 
improvisation stupidly empties the mind. Gentlemen, no 
haste; let us mingle majesty with our feast, eat contempla- 
tively, and let festina lenté be our rule. We must not hurry. 
Look at the Spring; if it goes ahead too fast, it is floored,— 
that is to say, nipped by frost. Excessive zeal ruins the 
peach and apricot trees. Excessive zeal kills the grace and 
joy of good dinners. No zeal, gentlemen; Grimod de la 
Reyniére is of the same opinion as Talleyrand.” 

The party rebelled. 

“ Tholomyés, leave us in peace,”’ said Blachevelle. 

“Down with the tyrant,” said Fameuil. 

*¢ Sunday exists,” Listolier added. 

“We are sober,”? Fameuil remarked again. 

“ Tholomyés,” said Blachevelle, ‘“‘see my calmness (mon 
calme).” 

“ You are the marquis of that,” replied Tholomyés. This 
poor pun produced the effect of a stone thrown into a pond. 
The Marquis de Montcalm was a celebrated royalist of the 
day. All the frogs were silent. 


148 FANTINE 


“My friends,” shouted Tholomyés, with the accent of a 
man who recaptures his empire, “‘ come to your senses! Too 
great stupor should not greet this pun dropped from the 
clouds; for everything that falls thence is not necessarily 
worthy of enthusiasm and respect. Far be it from me to 
insult puns; I honour them according to their deserts, and 
no more. All the most august, sublime, and charming mem- 
bers of humanity have made puns; as, for instance, Christ 
made a pun on Saint Peter, Moses on Isaac, Atschylus on 
Polynices, and Cleopatra on Octavius. And note the fact 
that Cleopatra’s pun preceded the battle of Actium, and 
that, were it not for that pun, no one would remember the 
town of Toryne,—a Greek word signifying a pot-ladle. 
This granted, I return to my exhortation. Brethren, I re- 
peat, no zeal, no row, no excess, not even in puns, jokes, and 
plays upon words. Listen to me, for I possess the prudence 
of Amphiaraus and the baldness of Caesar; there must be a 
limit even to rebuses, for est modus in rebus. 'There must be 
a limit even to dinners. You are fond of apple-puffs, ladies, 
but no abuse; even in the matter of apple-puffs, good sense 
and art are needed. Gluttony chastises the glutton; gula 
pumt gulax. Indigestion was sent into the world to read a 
lecture to our stomachs; and, bear this in mind, each of our 
passions, even love, has a stomach which must not be filled 
too full. In all things, we must write the word fins betimes ; 
we must restrain ourselves when it becomes urgent, put a bolt 
on our appetites, lock up our fancy, and place ourselves un- 
der arrest. 'The wise man is he who knows how, at a given 
moment, to arrest himself. Place some confidence in me. 
It does not follow because I know a little law, as my examina- 
tions prove; because I know the difference between the ques- 
tion put and the question pending ; because I have sustained a 
thesis in Latin as to the mode in which torture was applied / 
at Rome at the time when Munatius Demens was questor par- 
rictde; and because I am going to be a Doctor at Law, as it 
seems ; 1t does not necessarily follow, I say, that I am an ass. 
I recommend to you moderation in your desires. As truly 





FANTINE 149 
as my name is Felix Tholomyés, I speak the truth. Happy 


the man who, when the hour has struck, forms a heroic re- 
solve, and abdicates like Sylla or Origen.” 

Favourite listened with profound attention. ‘ Felix!” she 
said. ‘* What a pretty name; I like it. It is Latin, and 
means prosperous.”’ 

Tholomyés continued: ‘ Quirites, gentlemen, Caballeros, 
my friends. Would you feel no sting of passion, dispense 
with the nuptial couch, and defy love? Nothing easier. 
Lemonade, excess of exercise, hard work, tire yourselves, drag 
logs, do not sleep, keep awake, gorge yourselves with car- 
bonated drinks and herb-teas, take emulsions of poppy and 
agnus-castus, season this with a severe diet, starve yourselves, 
take cold baths, wear girdles of herbs, a leaden plate, use 
lotions of sub-acetate of lead and washes of oxycrate.” 

“I prefer a woman,” said Listolier. 

‘Women!’ cried Tholomyés. ‘‘ Be suspicious of women. 
Woe to the man who surrenders himself to a woman’s fickle 
heart; woman is perfidious and wily, and detests the serpent 
from professional jealousy. ‘The serpent is the shop over the 
way.” 

““ Tholomyés,” shouted Blachevelle, “ you are drunk.” 

“* I hope so!” 

“Then be jolly.” 

“I am agreeable,” answered Tholomyés. And filling his 
glass he rose. : 

“Glory to wine! Nunc te, Bacche, canam! Pardon, la- 
dies, that is Spanish, and the proof, sefioras, is this: like coun- 
try like cask. The arroba of Castile contains sixteen quarts, 
the cantaro of Alicante twelve, the almuda of the Canary 
Isles twenty-five, the cuartino of the Balearic Isles twenty- 
six, and Czar Peter’s boot thirty. Long live the czar who 
was great, and his boot which was greater still! Ladies, take 
a friend’s advice; make a mistake in your neighbour, if you 
think proper. It is the quality of love to wander; it is not 
made to crouch and stoop like an English servant-girl who 
has stiff knees from scrubbing. Love is not made for that, 


150 FANTINE 


but to rove gayly. It is said that error is human, but I say 
error is amorous. Ladies, I idolize you all. O Zephine, O 
Josephine, you with your pretty face, you would be charm- 
ing were you not all askew; your more than irregular face 
looks for all the world as if it had been sat upon by mistake. 
|As for Favourite, O ye Nymphs and Muses! one day when 
‘Blachevelle was crossing the gutter in the Rue Guérin-Bois- 
seau, he saw a pretty girl with well-fitting white stockings, 
who displayed her ankles. ‘The prologue was pleasing, and 
Blachevelle fell in love; the girl he loved was Favourite. O 
Favourite, you have Ionian lips; there was a Greek painter 
named Euphorion who was christened the painter of lips, and 
this Greek alone would be worthy to paint your mouth. Lis- 
ten to me: before you, there was not a creature worthy of 
the name; you are made to receive the apple like Venus, or to 
eat it like Eve. Beauty begins with you. I just mentioned 
Eve; but you created beauty, and you deserve a patent for 
inventing the pretty woman. You alluded to my name just 
now; it affected me deeply, but we must be distrustful of 
names, for they may be deceptive. My name is Felix, and 
yet I am not happy. Let us not blindly accept the indica- 
tions they give us; it would be a mistake to write to Liege 
for corks, or to Pau for gloves.t Miss Dahlia, in your place 
I would call myself Rose; for a flower should smell sweet, 
and a woman should be witty. I say nothing of Fantine, 
for she is a dreamer, pensive and sensitive; she is a phantom, 
with the form of a nymph and the modesty of a nun, who 
has strayed into the life of a grisette, but takes shelter in 
illusions, who sings, prays, and looks at the blue sky without 
exactly knowing what she sees or what she does, and who, with 
her eyes fixed on heaven, wanders about a garden in which 
there are more birds than ever existed. O Fantine, know 
this: I, Tholomyés, am an illusion— Why, the fair girl 
of chimeras is not even listening to me! All about her is 
freshness, suavity, youth, and sweet morning brightness. O 


kin) untranslatable pun based on chéne-liége (a cork-tree) and peau 
(skin). 


a i OO — rr 


FANTINE 151 


Fantine, girl worthy to be called Margaret or Pearl, you are 
a woman of the fairest Orient. Ladies, here is a second 
piece of advice: do not marry, for marriage is like grafting; 
it may succeed or not. Avoid that risk. But nonsense! I 
waste my words! Girls are incurable about wedlock; and all 
that we sages may say will not prevent waistcoat makers and 
shoe-binders from dreaming of husbands loaded with dia- 
monds. Well, beauties, be it so; but bear this in mind, you 
eat too much sugar. You have only one fault, O women, 
and that is nibbling sugar. O nibbling sex, your pretty 
little white teeth adore sugar. Now, listen to this: sugar is 
a salt, and salts are of a drying nature; and sugar is the most 
drying of all salts. It pumps out the fluidity of the blood 
through the veins; this produces, first, coagulation and then 
solidification of the blood. From this come tubercles in the 
lungs, and thence death. Thus diabetes borders on consump- 
tion. Hence do not nibble sugar, and you will live. I now 
turn to my male hearers: Gentlemen, make conquests. Rob 
one another of your well-beloved ones remorselessly; change 
partners, for in love there are no friends. Whenever there 
is a pretty woman, hostilities are opened: there is no quar- 
ter, but war to the knife! A pretty woman is a casus belli 
and a flagrant offence. All the invasions of history were 
produced by petticoats; for woman is the lawful prey of man. 
Romulus carried off the Sabine women, William the Saxon 
women, and Cxsar the Roman women. A man who is not 
loved, soars like a vulture over the mistresses of other men; 
and, for my part, I offer all these unfortunate widowers 
Bonaparte’s sublime proclamation to the army of Italy: 
‘Soldiers, you want for everything ; the enemy possesses it.’ ” 

Here Tholomyés broke off. 

“Take a breather, my boy,” said Blachevelle. 

At the same time the other three men struck up to a dole- 
ful air one of those studio-songs composed of the first words 
that come to hand, rhymed or not, as devoid of sense as the 
waving of a twig or the sound of the wind, which spring from 
the smoke of pipes, and fly away with it:— 


152 FANTINE 


“The father turkeys gave 
Some money to a slave 
That Mr. Clermont-Tonnerre 
Might be made pope at St. John’s fair. 
But Clermont could not be 
Made pope, because no priest was he; 
And then their slave whose fury burned, 
Their money all to them returned.” 


The song was not adapted to calm Tholomyés’ inspiration ; 
hence he emptied his glass, re-filled it, and began again :— 

“ Down with wisdom! forget all I have said. Be neither 
prudish nor prudent nor hypocrites. I drink the health of 
jollity ; so let us be jolly. Let us complete our legal studies 
by folly and good food, for indigestion should mate with 
digests. Let Justinian be the male and merriment the fe- 
male! Live, O Creation! the world is one large diamond. I 
am happy, and the birds are astounding. What a festival 
all around us; the nightingale is an Elleviou for nothing. 
Summer, I salute thee. O Luxembourg! O ye Georgics of 
the Rue Madame and the Allée de l’Observatoire! O ye 
dreaming recruits! O ye delicious nurses, who, while you 
take care of children, fancy what your own will be like! The 
pampas of America would please me if I had not the arcades 
of the Odeon. My soul flies away to the virgin forests and 
the savannas. All is glorious; the flies buzz in the light; 
the sun has sneezed forth the humming-bird. Kiss me, Fan- 
tine!” 

He made a mistake and kissed Favourite. 


CHAPTER VIII 


THE DEATH OF A HORSE 


HE dinners are better at Edon’s than at Bombarda’s,” 
exclaimed Zephine. 

** I prefer Bombarda,” declared Blachevelle ; ‘* there is more 

luxury; it is more Asiatic. Just look at the dining-room 


FANTINE 153 


down stairs, with its mirrors; look at the knives,— they are 
silver-handled here and bone at Edon’s. Now, silver is more 
precious than bone.” 

‘Except to those persons who have a silver chin,” ob- 
served Tholomyés. 

He was looking at the dome of the Invalides, which was 
visible from Bombarda’s window. ‘There was a pause. 

*¢ 'Tholomyés,”’ exclaimed Fameuil, “ Listolier and I have 
just had a discussion.” 

** Discussion is good,” he replied; *‘ a quarrel is better.” 

‘We were discussing philosophy. Which do you prefer, 
Descartes or Spinoza? ” 

*“‘ Désaugiers,” said Tholomyés. Having given this deci- 
sion, he continued: ‘* I consent to live; all is not finished in 
the world, since men can still talk nonsense. I return thanks 
to the immortal gods. Men lie, but they laugh: they affirm, 
but they doubt; and the unexpected issues from the syllogism. 
This 1s grand; there are still in the world human beings who 
can joyously open and shut the puzzle-box of paradox. This 
wine, ladies, which you drink so calmly is Madeira, you must 
know, grown at Coural das Freiras, which is three hundred 
and seventeen fathoms above the sea-level. Attention while 
you drink! three hundred and seventeen fathoms, and Bom- 
barda, the magnificent landlord, lets you have these three 
hundred and seventeen fathoms for four francs fifty cen- 
times.” 

Fameuil again interrupted. 

“ Tholomyés, your opinions are law. Who is your favour- 
ite author? ” 

66 Ber Pak 

co quin? 93 

“ No; — choux.” 

Tholomyes drained his glass, and then continued :— 

** Honour to Bombarda! he would be equal to Munophis of 
Elephanta if he could ladle me up an Almeh, and to Thygelion 
of Cheronea if he could procure me a Hetera! for, ladies, 
there were Bombardas in Greece and Egypt, as Apuleius 


154 FANTINE 


teaches us. Alas! ever the same thing and nothing new; 
nothing is left unpublished in the creation of the Creator. 
‘ Nothing new under the sun,’ says Solomon: amor omnibus 
idem; and Carabine gets into the St. Cloud boat with Carabin, 
just as Aspasia embarked with Pericles aboard the Samos fleet. 
One last word: Do you know who Aspasia was, ladies? Al- 
though she lived at a time when women had no soul, she was 
a soul,— a soul of pink and purple hue, hotter than fire, and 
fresher than dawn. Aspasia was a woman in whom the two 
extremes of femininity met; she was a harlot Bode: a So- 
crates plus Manon Lescaut.” 

Tholomyés, when started, would hardly have been checked, 
had not a horse fallen in the street at this very moment. 
From the shock, cart and orator stopped short. It was a 
Beauce mare, old and lean, and worthy of the knacker, drag- 
ging a very heavy cart. On getting in front of Bombarda’s, 
the beast, exhausted and worn out, refused to go any farther, 
and this incident produced a crowd. ‘The carter, swearing 
and indignant, had scarce time to utter with suitable energy 
the sacramental word “‘ Jade!” backed up by a pitiless lash, 
ere the poor beast fell, never to rise again. 'Tholomyés’ gay 
hearers turned their heads at the noise, while he wound up 
his speech with the following sad strophe :-— 


“She was of the world, 
Which fairest things exposes to fates the most forlorn! 
A horse, she too hath lived as long as live the horses,— 
The space of one brief morn.” 1 


** Poor horse!” sighed Fantine; and Dahlia shouted: 

“Why, here is Fantine beginning to feel pity for horses; 
how can she be such a fool? ” 

At this moment, Favourite crossed her arms and threw back 
her head; she then looked boldly at Tholomyés, and said :— 

“Well, how about the surprise? ”’ 

“That is true, the hour has arrived,” Tholomyés an- 


1 A parody on Malherbe’s famous poem, “To M. Perrier on the Death 
of His Daughter.” 


ee ee 


FANTINE 155 


swered. ‘‘ Gentlemen, it is time to surprise the ladies. Pray, 
wait for us a moment.” 

** It begins with a kiss,” said Blachevelle. 

“On the forehead,” added Tholomyés. 

Each solemnly kissed the forehead of his mistress; then 
they proceeded to the door in Indian file, with a finger on their 
lips. Favourite clapped her hands as they went out. 

“It is amusing already,” she said. 

“Do not be long,” murmured Fantine; “ we are waiting 
for you.” 





CHAPTER IX 
THE JOYOUS END OF JOY 


HE girls, when left alone, leaned out of the windows, two 

by two, talking, looking out, and wondering. They 

watched the young men leave the tavern arm in arm; they 

turned, made laughing signs, and disappeared in that dusty: 
Sunday mob which once a week invades the Champs Bees 

“Do not be long,” cried Fantine. 

* What will they bring us? ” said Zephine. 

‘I am sure it will be pretty,” said Dahlia. 

“For my part,” added Favourite, “ I hope it will be set in 
gold.” 

They were soon distracted by the movements on the quay, 
which they could see through the branches of the tall trees, 
and which greatly amused them. It was the hour for the 
mail-coaches and stages to start, and nearly all those bound 
for the South and West at that time passed through the 
Champs Elysées. Most of them went along the quay and out 
by the barrier de Passy. Every moment some heavy vehicle, 
painted yellow and black, heavily loaded, and rendered shape- 
less by trunks, tarpaulins, and valises, dashed through the 
crowd, grinding the pavement, changing the stones to flint 


156 FANTINE 


and steel, striking sparks like a forge, the dust representing 
the smoke. ‘This confusion amused the girls. Favourite ex- 
claimed, “ What a noise! you would think a heap of chains 
was flying away.” 

One of these vehicles, but half seen through the branches, 
stopped for a moment, then started off again at a gallop. 
This surprised Fantine. 

“‘ That is strange,” she said; “ I fancied that the diligence 
never stopped.” 

Favourite shrugged her shoulders. 

“This Fantine is really amazing, I must take a look at 
her out of curiosity. She is surprised at the simplest things. 
Suppose I am a traveller and say to the guard, ‘I will walk 
on and you can pick me up at the quay as you pass.’ The 
coach passes, sees me, stops, and takes me in. ‘That is done 
every day; you are ignorant of life, my dear.” | 

Some time elapsed ; all at once Favourite started as if wak- 
ing from sleep. 

“Well,” she said, “* where is the surprise? ” 

** Oh, yes,” Dahlia continued, “ the famous surprise.” 

** They are a lang time,” said Fantine. 

Just as Fantine ended this sigh, the waiter who had served 
the dinner came in; he held in his hand something that looked 
like a letter. 

*¢ What is that? ”? asked Favourite. 

The waiter answered :— 

** It is the paper which the gentlemen left for you, ladies.” 

*S Why did you not bring it to us at once? ” 

** Because the gentlemen,” the waiter went on, “ ordered 
that it should not be delivered to you for an hour.” 

Favourite snatched the paper from the waiter’s hand. It 
was really a letter. 

*“* Stay,” she said; there is no address, but this is written 
upon it, ‘ THis is THE suRPRISE.’”’ She quickly opened the 
letter and read (she could read ) :-— 


“WELL BELOVED.— Know that we have relatives. Perhaps you do not 
exactly know what the word means; it means fathers and mothers in 


FANTINE 157 


the civil, puerile, and honest code. Well, these relatives groan; these 
old people claim us as their own; these worthy men and women call us 
prodigal sons. They desire our return home, and offer to kill the fatted 
calf. We obey them, as we are virtuous; when you read this, five im- 
petuous steeds will be conveying us back to our papas and mammas. 
We are making tracks, to quote the language of Bossuet; we are going, 
gone. We fly in the arms of Lafitte and on the wings of Caillard. 
The Toulouse coach drags us from the abyss, and that abyss is your- 
selves, pretty dears. We return to society, duty, and order, at a sharp 
trot, and at the rate of nine miles an hour. It is important for our 
country that we should become, like everybody else, prefects, fathers 
of a family, game-keepers, and councillors of state. Revere us, for 
we sacrifice ourselves. Dry your tears for us rapidly, and get a sub- 
stitute speedily. If this letter rend your hearts, treat it in the same 
fashion. Good-by. For nearly two years we have made you happy, 
so do not owe us any grudge. 
(Signed) Blachevelle. 
Fameuil 
Listolier. 


Felix Tholomyés, 
““P, S. The dinner is paid for.” 


The four girls looked at one another, and Favourite was 
the first to break the silence. 

“ T don’t care,” she said, “it is a capital joke.” 

“¢It is very funny,” remarked Zephine. 

“© It must have been Blachevelle’s idea,” continued Favour- 
ite; “it makes me in love with him. So soon as he leaves 
me I begin to grow fond of him; the old story.” 

“No,” said Dahlia, “it is Tholomyés’ idea. That’s 
plain.” 

“In that case,” retorted Favourite, “ down with Blache- 
velle, and long live Tholomyés!” 

“Long live Tholomyés!” cried Dahlia and Zephine. And 
they burst into a laugh, in which Fantine joined; an hour 
later, though, when she returned to her room, she burst into 
tears. He was, as we have said, her first love; she had 
yielded to Tholomyés as to a husband, and the poor girl had 
a child. : 


BOOK IV 


TO CONFIDE IS SOMETIMES TO ABANDON 





CHAPTER I 
TWO MOTHERS MEET 


HERE was, in the first quarter of this century, a sort 
of pot-house at Montfermeil, near Paris, which no 
longer exists. It was kept by a man and wife named Thénar- 
dier, and was situated in Boulanger Alley. Over the door a 
board was nailed to the wall, and on this board was painted 
something resembling a man carrying on his back another 
man; who wore large gilt epaulets with silver stars; red 
dabs represented blood, and the rest of the painting was 
smoke, probably representing a battle. At the bottom could 
be read the inscription, “ THe SERGEANT oF WaTERLOO.” 
Though nothing is more common than a cart or truck at 
a pot-house door, the vehicle, or rather fragment of a vehicle, 
which blocked the street in front of The Sergeant of Water- 
loo, one spring evening in 1818, would certainly have at- 
tracted the attention of any painter who had passed that 
way. It was the fore-part of one of those wains used in 
wooded countries for dragging planks and trunks of trees; 
it was composed of a massive iron axle-tree, into which a 
heavy pole was fitted and supported by two enormous wheels. 
The whole thing was clumsy, tremendous, and shapeless, and 
it might have passed for the carriage of a monstrous gun. 
The ruts had given the wheels, felloes, spokes, axle-tree. and 
| 158 


FANTINE 159 


pole, a coating of mud,— a hideous yellow plaster much like 
that with which cathedrals are so often adorned. The wood- 
work was hidden by mud and the iron with rust. Under the 
axle-tree was festooned a heavy chain, suited for a convict 
Goliath. This chain made you think, not of the wood it was 
intended to secure, but of the mastodons and mammoths which 
it might have served to harness; it reminded one of the gal- 
leys, but of a cyclopean and superhuman galleys, and seemed 
to have been removed from some monster. Homer would 
have bound Polyphemus with it, and Shakespeare, Caliban. 
Why was this thing at this place in the street? First to 
block the street ; secondly, to finish the rusting prccess. There 
is in the old social order a multitude of institutions which may 
be found in this fashion in the open air, and which have no 
other reason for being where they are. The centre of the 
chain hung rather close to the ground, and on the curve, as 
on the rope of a swing, two little girls were seated on this 
evening, in an exquisite embrace, one about two years and a 
half, the other eighteen months old,—the younger in the 
arms of the elder. A handkerchief carefully knotted pre- 
vented them from falling, for a mother had seen that fright- 
ful chain, and said, “ What a famous plaything for my chil- 
dren!” ‘The two children, who were dressed prettily and with 
some taste, were radiant; they looked like two roses among 
old iron. Their eyes were a triumph, their healthy cheeks 
laughed; one had auburn hair, the other black; their inno- 
cent faces had a look of delighted surprise; a flowering shrub 
a little distance off sent to passers-by a perfume which seemed 
to come from them; and the eighteen months old one dis- 
played her pretty little bare stomach with the chaste inde- 
cency of childhood. Above and around the two delicate 
heads, moulded in happiness and bathed in light, the gigan- 
tic pair of wheels, black with rust, almost terrible, and brist- 
ling with curves and savage angles, formed the porch of a 
cavern, as it were. A few yards off, squatting at the inn 
door, the mother, a woman of no very pleasing appearance, 
but touching at this moment, was swinging the children by 


160 | FANTINE 


the help of a long rope, devouring them with her eyes, for 
fear of an accident, with that animal and heavenly expression 
peculiar to maternity. At each oscillation the hideous links 
uttered a harsh sound, like an angry cry. The little girls 
were in ecstasies. The setting sun mingled with their joy; 
and nothing could be more charming than this caprice of 
chance which had made of a Titanic chain a cherub’s swing. 
While playing with the little ones the mother sang terribly 
out of tune, a romance very famous at that day: — 


“&lt;*It must be,’ said a warrior bold.” 


Her song and contemplation of her daughters prevented 
her hearing and seeing what took place in the street. Some 
one, however, had approached her, as she began the first 
couplets of the romance, and suddenly she heard a voice close 
to her ear: — 

** You have two pretty children, ma’am.” 


“‘-to the tender and fair Imogen’” 


the mother answered, continuing her song, and then turned 
her head. A woman stood a few paces from her, who also 
had a child, which she carried in her arms. She also carried 
a heavy bag. This woman’s child was one of the most divine 
creatures possible to behold. She was a girl between two 
and three years of age, and could have vied with the two 
other little ones in the coquettishness of her dress. She had 
on a fine linen cap, ribbons at her shoulders, and Valenciennes 
lace in her cap. Her raised petticoats displayed her firm, 
white, dimpled thigh; it was admirably pink and healthy, and 
her cheeks made one long to bite them. Nothing could be 
said of her eyes, except that they must be very large, and 
that she had magnificent lashes, for she was asleep. She 
slept with the absolute confidence peculiar to her age; a 
mother’s arms are made of tenderness, and children sleep 
soundly in them. As for the mother, she looked sad and 
poor, and was dressed like a working-girl trying to turn coun- 
try-woman again. She was young; was she pretty? Per- 


FANTINE 161 


haps so; but in this dress she did not appear so. Her hair, 
a light lock of which peeped out, seemed very thick, but was 
completely hidden beneath an ugly, tight, close fitting, nun’s 
hood, fastened under her chin. Laughter displays fine teeth 
when a person happens to possess them, but she did not 
laugh. Her eyes looked as if they had not been dry for a 
long time; she had a very weary and rather sickly air, and 
she looked at the child sleeping in her arms in the manner 
peculiar to a mother who has suckled her babe. A large blue 
handkerchief, like those served out to hospital patients, folded 
like a shawl, clumsily hid her shape. Her hands were rough 
and covered with red spots, and her forefinger was hardened 
and torn by the needle; she wore a brown cloth cloak, a cot- 
ton gown, and heavy shoes. It was Fantine. 

It was difficult to recognize her; but, after an attentive ex- 
amination, it was evident that she still possessed her beauty. 
A melancholy wrinkle, which looked like the beginning of 
sarcasm, furrowed her right cheek. As for her dress, that 
airy dress of muslin and ribbons which seemed made of gay- 
ety, folly, and music, full of bells and perfumed with lilacs, 
—it had vanished like the beautiful, dazzling hoar-frost 
which looks like diamonds in the sun; it melts, and leaves the 
branch quite black. 

Ten months had elapsed since the “ good joke.” What 
had taken place during these ten months? We can guess. 
After desertion, want. Fantine instantly lost sight of Fa- 
vourite, Zephine, and Dahlia, for the tie once broken by the 
men was loosed between the women. They would have been 
greatly surprised, a fortnight after, had they been told that 
they were ever friends; for there was no longer any reason 
for it. Fantine remained alone when the father of her child 
had gone. Alas! such ruptures are irrevocable. She found 
herself absolutely isolated; she had lost the habit of work- 
ing, and had gained a taste for pleasure. Led by her con- 
nection with Tholomyés to despise the little trade she knew, 
she had neglected her employers, and it was lost. She had 
no et Fantine could hardly read, and could not write; 


) 


162 FANTINE 


she merely had been taught in childhood to sign her name. 
She had sent a letter to Tholomyés, then a second, then a 
third, through a public letter-writer, but Tholomyés did not 
answer one of them. One day Fantine heard the gossips 
say, as they looked at her daughter, “Do people ever take 


children like that seriously? People shrug their shoulders ! 


at them.”? Then she thought of Tholomyés, who shrugged 
his shoulders at her child, and did not take the innocent crea- 
ture seriously, and her heart turned from the man. What 
was she to do now? She knew not where to turn. She had 
committed a fault, but the foundation of her nature, we 
must remember, was modesty and virtue. She felt vaguely 
that she was on the eve of falling into distress, and gliding 
into a worse condition. She needed courage, and she had it. 
The idea occurred to her to return to her native town, M. 
sur M. There, some one might know her, and give her work; 
but she must hide her fault. And she vaguely perceived 
the possible necessity of a separation more painful still than 
the first; her heart ached, but she made up her mind. Fan- 
tine, as we shall she, possessed the stern bravery of life. She 
had already valiantly given up finery; she dressed in calico, 
and put all her silk, ribbons, and laces upon her daughter,— 
the only vanity left her, and 1t was a holy one. She sold all 
she possessed, which brought her in two hundred francs; and 
when she had paid her little debts, she had only about eighty 
francs left. At the age of two-and-twenty, on a fine spring 
morning, she left Paris, carrying her child on her back. Any 
one who had seen them pass would have pitied them; the 
woman had nothing in the world but her child, and the child 
nothing but her mother in her world. Fantine had suckled 
her child; this had weakened her chest, and she coughed a 
little. 

We shall have no further occasion to speak of Felix Tholo- 
myés. We will merely say that twenty years later, in the 
reign of Louis Philippe, he was a stout country lawyer, rich 
and influential, a sensible elector, and a very strict juror, but 
always a man of pleasure. 


FANTINE 163 


About midday, after resting herself now and then by trav- 
elling from time to time, at the expense of three or four sous 
a league, in what were then called the “ little vehicles of the 
suburbs of Paris,’? Fantine found herself at Montfermeil, in 
Boulanger Alley. As she passed The Sergeant of Waterloo, 
the two little girls in their monster swing dazzled her, and 
she stopped before that vision of joy. ‘There are charms 
in life, and these two little girls were one for this mother. 
She looked at them with great emotion, for the presence of 
angels is an announcement of paradise. She believed she 
saw above this pot-house the mysterious Here of Providence. 
These two little creatures were evidently happy! She 
looked, and admired them with such tenderness that when 
the mother took breath between two verses of her song, she 
could not refrain from saying to her what we have already 
recorded : — 

“You have two pretty children, ma’am.” 

The most ferocious creatures are disarmed by a caress to 
their little ones. The mother raised her head, thanked her, 
and bade her sit down on the bench by the door. ‘The two 
women began talking. 

“My name is Thénardier,” said the mother of the little 
ones ; “* we keep this inn.” 

Then, returning to her romance, she went on humming,— 


“&lt;*Tt must be so; I am a knight, 
And I am bound for Palestine.’ ” 


This Madame Thénardier was a red-headed, bony, angular 
woman, the type of a soldier’s wife in all its ugliness, and, 
strange to say, with a languishing air which she owed to 
reading romances. She was an affected, masculine creature ; 
for old romances, by working on the imagination of land- 
ladies, produce that effect. She was still young,— scarce 
thirty. If this woman, now stooping, had been standing up, 
perhaps her height and colossal proportions, fitting for a 
show, would have at once startled the traveller, destroyed 
her confidence, and prevented what we have to record. A 


164 FANTINE 


person sitting instead of standing up,— destinies hang on 
this. 

The traveller told her story with some modifications. She 
was a working-girl; her husband was dead, she could get no 
work in Paris, and was going to seek it elsewhere,— in her 
native town. She had left Paris that very morning on foot; 
as she felt tired from carrying her child, she had travelled 
by the stage-coach to Villemomble; from that place she walked 
to Montfermeil. The little one had walked part of the way, 
but not far, for she was so young; and she had been obliged 
to take her up, and the darling had gone to sleep. And as 
she said this, she gave her daughter a passionate kiss, which 
waked her. The baby opened her eyes (large blue eyes like 
her mother’s), and gazed at—- what? Nothing, everything, 
with that serious, sometimes severe air of little children, which 
is a mystery of their luminous innocence in the presence of 
our twilight virtues. We might say that they feel them- 
selves to be angels, and know us to be men. ‘Then the child 
began to laugh, and, though her mother held her back, 
slipped to the ground with the indomitable energy of a little 
creature wishing to run. All at once she noticed the two 
others in their swing, stopped short, and put out her tongue 
as a sign of admiration. Mother Thénardier unfastened her 
children, took them from the swing, and said, “‘ Play about, 
all three.” 

Children of that age soon make acquaintance; and in a 
minute the little Thénardiers were playing with the new-comer 
at making holes in the ground, which was an immense pleas- 
ure. ‘The new-comer was very merry; the goodness of the 
mother is written in the gayety of the baby. She had picked 
up a piece of wood which she used as a spade, and was ener- 
getically digging a grave large enough for a fly. The 
grave-digger’s task becomes amusing when performed by a 
child. 

The two women went on talking. 

** ‘What’s the name of your youngster? ” 

* Cosette.” 


FANTINE 165 


For Cosette read Euphrasie, for that was the child’s real 
name; but the mother had converted Euphrasie into Cosette, 
through that gentle, graceful instinct peculiar to mothers 
and common people, which changes Josefa into Pepita, and 
Frangoise into Sillette. It is a sort of derivation which up- 
sets and disconcerts all the knowledge of etymologists. We 
know a grandmother who contrived to turn Theodore into 
Gnon. 

‘* How old is she? ” 

“Going on for three.” 

‘* Just the same age as my eldest.” 

In the mean time the three little girls were grouped in a 
posture of profound anxiety and blessedness ; an event had oc- 
curred. A large worm had crept out of the ground, and 
they were frightened, and they were in ecstasy; their radiant 
brows touched each other, and they looked like three heads 
in a halo. 

** How soon children get to know one another!” Mother 
Thénardier exclaimed ; “ why, any one would swear they were 
three sisters.” 

The word was probably the spark which the other mother 
had been waiting for; she seized the speaker’s hand, loci at 
her fixedly, and said: — 

* Will you keep my child for me? ” 

The woman gave one of those starts of surprise which are 
neither assent nor refusal. Fantine continued : — 

* You see, I cannot take the child home with me; for when 
a woman has a baby, it is a hard matter for her to get a 
situation. People are so foolish in our part. It was Heaven 
that made me pass in front of your inn; when I saw your 
little ones so pretty, so clean, so happy, it gave me a turn. 
I said to myself, ‘ She is a kind mother.? That’s just it, they 
will be three sisters ; and then it will not be long before I come 
back. Will you take care of my child for me? ” 

“We will see,” said Mother Thénardier. 

‘I will pay six francs a month.” 

Here a man’s voice cried from the back of the tap-room: — 


166 FANTINE 


“ Can’t be done under seven, and six months paid in ad- 
vance.” 

‘“‘ Six times seven are forty-two,” said the landlady. 

** I will pay it,” said the mother. 

“And fifteen francs more for first expenses,” the man’s 
voice added. 

“ Total fifty-seven francs,” said Madame Thénardier ; and 
with these figures she hummed,— 


“*Tt must be so,’ said a warrior bold.” 


“TJ will pay it,” said the mother; ‘I have eighty francs, 
and I shall have enough left to get home on foot. I shall 
earn money there; and so soon as I have saved something I 
will come and fetch my darling.” 

The man’s voice continued : — 

‘“* Has the little one a stock of clothing? ” 

** It is my husband,” said Mother Thénardier. 

** Of course she has clothes, poor little treasure (I knew it 
was your husband); and a fine stock of clothes, too,— a won- 
derful stock, a dozen of everything, and silk frocks like a lady. 
The things are in my bag.” 

‘They must be handed over,” the man’s voice remarked. 

‘“‘ Of course,” said the mother; “ it would be queer if I left 
my child naked.” 

The master’s face appeared. 

*¢ All right,” he said. 

The bargain was concluded. The mother spent the night 
at the inn, paid her money and left her child, fastened up her 
bag, which was now light, the baby’s clothes being taken 
out, and started next morning with the intention of returning 
soon. Such departures are arranged calmly, but they entail 
despair. A neighbour’s wife saw the mother going away, 
and went home saying : — 

“IT have just seen a woman crying in the street as if her 
heart was broken.” 

When Cosette’s mother had gone, the man said to his 
wife: — 


FANTINE 167 


‘That money will meet my bill for one hundred and ten 
francs, which falls due to-morrow; I was fifty francs short. 
It would have been protested, and I should have had a bailiff 
put in. You set a famous mouse-trap with your brats.” 

* Without suspecting it,” said the woman. 





CHAPTER II 
THE FIRST SKETCH OF TWO UGLY FIGURES 


HE captured mouse was very small, but the cat is 
pleased even with a thin mouse. Who were the Thé- 
nardiers? We will say one word about them now, and com- 
plete the sketch hereafter. These beings belonged to the 
bastard class composed of vulgar upstarts and of intelligent 
people who have gone down in the world, which stands be- 
tween the middle and lower classes, combining some of the 
faults of the second with nearly all the vices of the first, 
though without possessing the generous impulse of the work- 
ing-man or the honest regularity of the tradesman. 

Theirs were those dwarfed natures which easily become 
monstrous, when any gloomy fire accidentally warms them. 
There was in the woman the basis of a brute, in the man the 
stuff for a vagabond. Both were in the highest degree sus- 
ceptible of that sort of hideous progress which is made in 
the direction of evil. There are crab-like souls which con- 
stantly retreat toward darkness, retrograde in life rather than 
advance, employ experience to augment their deformity, in- 
cessantly grow worse, and are more and more impregnated 
with increasing blackness. This man and woman had such 
souls. 

Thénardier was peculiarly troublesome to the physiogno- 
mist. There are some men at whom you need only look to 


168 FANTINE 


distrust them, for you feel that they are shady in both direc- 
tions. ‘They are restless in regard to the rear and threat- 
ening in front. There is something of the unknown in them. 
We can no more answer for what they have done than for 
what they will do. The gloom in their glance denounces 
them. Merely by hearing them say a word, or seeing them 
make a gesture, we get a glimpse of dark secrets in their 
past, dark mysteries in their future. This Thénardier, could 
he be believed, had been a soldier,— sergeant, he said. He 
probably had gone through the campaign of 1815, and had 
even behaved rather bravely, it seems. We shall see presently 
how the matter really stood. The sign of his inn was an 
allusion to one of his exploits, and he had painted it him- 
self ; for he could do a little of everything,— badly. It was 
the time when the old classical romance — which, after being 
** Clélie,”’ had now become “ Lodoiska,” and, though still 
noble, was daily growing more vulgar, and had fallen from 
Mademoiselle de Scudéry to Madame Bournon Malarme, and 
from Madame de Lafayette to Madame Barthelemy Hadot 
— was firing the loving souls of the portresses of Paris, and 
even extending its ravages to the suburbs. Madame Thé- 
nardier was just intelligent enough to read books of this 
nature, and lived on them. She thus drowned any brains 
she possessed ; and so long as she remained young, and a little 
longer, it gave her a sort of pensive attitude toward her 
husband, who was a scamp of some depth, an almost gram- 
matical ruffian, coarse and at the same time refined, but who, 
in matters of sentimentalism, read Pigault Lebrun, and, “ in 
all that concerned the sex,” as he said in his jargon, was a 
downright and unmitigated brute. His wife was some twelve 
or fifteen years younger than he; and when her romantically 
flowing locks began to grow gray, when the Megera was 
disengaged from the Pamela, she was only a stout, wicked 
woman who had been pampered with foolish romances. As 
such absurdities cannot be read with impunity, the result was 
that her eldest daughter was christened Eponine; as for the 
younger, the poor girl was all but named Gulnare, and owed 


———- 


FANTINE 169 


it to a fortunate diversion made by one of Ducray Duminil’s 
romances that she was only christened Azelma. 

By the way, all is not ridiculous and superficial in the 
curious epoch to which we are alluding, and which might be 
called the anarchy of baptismal names. Besides the romantic 
element, which we have just pointed out, there was the social 
symptom. It is not uncommon now for a drover’s son to be 
called Arthur, Alfred, or Alphonse, and for a viscount — if 
there are any viscounts left —to be called Thomas, Pierre, 
cr Jacques. This displacement, which gives the “ elegant ” 
name to the plebeian and the rustic name to the aristocrat, is 
nothing but an eddy of equality. The irresistible penetration 
of the new spirit is visible in this as in everything else. Be- 
neath this apparent discord, there is a grand and deep thing, 
—the French Revolution. 





CHAPTER III 
THE LARK 


[‘ is not enough to be bad in order to prosper; and the 

pot-house was in a bad way. ‘Thanks to the traveller’s 
fifty-seven francs, 'Thénardier had been able to avoid a pro- 
test, and to honour his signature; but the next month they 
wanted money again, and his wife took Cosette’s outfit to 
Paris and pawned it for sixty francs. So soon as this sum 
was spent, the Thénardiers grew accustomed to regard the 
little girl as a child they had taken in through charity, and 
they treated her accordingly. As she had no clothes, she 
was dressed in the left-off chemises and petticoats of the 
little Thénardiers,— that is to say, in rags. She was fed on 
the leavings of everybody, a little better than the dog, and a 
little worse than the cat. Dog and cat were her usual com- 
pany at dinner, for Cosette ate with them under the table off 
a wooden trencher like theirs. 


170 FANTINE 


Her mother, who had settled, as we shall see hereafter, at 
M. sur M., wrote, or, to speak more correctly, had a letter 
written every month to inquire after her child. The Thé- 
nardiers invariably replied that Cosette was getting on 
famously. When the first six months had passed, the mother 
sent seven francs for the seventh month, and continued to 
send the money punctually month by month. The year was 
not ended before Thénardier said: ‘‘ A fine favour she is 
doing us! What does she expect us to do with her seven 
francs!’ and he wrote to demand twelve. The mother, whom 
they persuaded that her child was happy and “ getting on 
well,’ submitted, and sent the twelve francs. 

Some natures cannot love on one side without hating on 
the other. Mother Thénardier passionately loved her own 
two daughters, which made her detest the stranger. It is 
sad to think that a mother’s love can have such ugly aspects. 
Though Cosette occupied so little room, it seemed to her 
as if it were taken from her children, and that the little one 
diminished the air her daughters breathed. This woman, like 
many women of her class, had a certain amount of caresses 
and another of blows and insults to expend daily. If she 
had not had Cosette, it is certain that her daughters, idol- 
ized though they were, would have received the entire amount; 
but the strange child did them the service to divert the blows 
to herself, while the daughters received only the caresses. 
Cosette never made a movement that did not bring down 
on her head a hail-storm of violent and unmerited chastise- 
ment. The poor, weak child, who knew nothing of this world, 
or of God, incessantly punished, scolded, cuffed, and beaten, 
saw by her side two little creatures like herself, who lived in 
radiant happiness. 

As Madame Thénardier was unkind to Cosette, Eponine 
and Azelma were the same; for children at that age are copies 
of their mother,— the size is smaller, that is all. A year 
passed, then another, and people said in the village: ‘ Those 
Thénardiers are worthy people. They are not well off, and 
yet they bring up a poor child left on their hands.” 


FANTINE 171 


Cosette was supposed to be deserted by her mother. 'Thé- 
nardier, however, having learned in some obscure way that 
the child was probably illegitimate, and that the mother 
could not acknowledge it, insisted on fifteen francs a month, 
saying that “‘ the creature” was growing and “ eatimg,”’ and 
threatening to send her back. ‘“ She must not play the fool 
with me,” he shouted, “or I'll fire her brat right into her 
mysteries about nothing. I must have more.” ‘The mother 
paid the fifteen francs. Year by year the child grew, and 
so did her wretchedness. So long as Cosette was little, she 
was the scapegoat of the two other children; so soon as she 
began to develop a little,—that is to say, even before she 
was five years old,— she became the servant of the house, 
‘“* At five years,” the reader will say, “‘ that is improbable; ” 
but, alas! it is true. Social suffering begins at any age. 
Have we not recently seen the trial of a certain Dumollard, 
an orphan, who turned bandit, and who from the age of five, 
as the official documents tell us, was alone in the world and 
‘** worked for a living and stole”? Cosette was made to go 
on errands, sweep the rooms, the yard, the sidewalk, wash 
the dishes, and even carry heavy bundles. ‘The Thénardiers 
considered themselves the more justified in acting thus, be- 
cause the mother, who was still at M. sur M., was beginning 
to pay badly, and was several months in arrear. 

If the mother had returned to Montfermeil at the end of 
three years, she would not have recognized her child. Cosette, 
so pretty and ruddy on her arrival in that house, was now 
thin and sickly. She had a singularly timid look. “A sly 
thing!’ said the Thénardiers. Injustice had made her sulky, 
and wretchedness had made her ugly. Nothing was left 
but her fine eyes, which were painful to look at, because, as 
they were so large, it seemed as if a greater amount of sad- 
ness were visible in them. It was heart-rending to see this 
poor child, scarce six years of age, shivering in winter under 
her calico rags, and sweeping the sidewalk before daybreak, 
with an enormous broom in her small red hands and a tear in 
her large eyes, 


% 


172 FAN TINE 


The country people called her “the lark.” The lower 
classes, who are fond of metaphors, took a fancy to give this 
name to the poor, trembling, frightened, shivering little 
creature, no bigger than a bird, who was always the first 
awake in the house and the village, and ever in the street or 
the fields by daybreak. 

But this poor lark never sang. 





‘BOOK V 
THE DESCENT 


CHAPTER I 
PROGRESS IN BLACK BEAD MAKING 


UT what had become of the mother who, according to 
the people of Montfermeil, had deserted her child? 
Where was she, what was she doing? After leaving her lit- 
tle Cosette with the Thénardiers, she had continued her jour- 
ney and reached M. sur M. Fantine had been away from 
home for ten years; and while she had slowly descended from 
misery to misery, her native town had prospered. About two 
years before, one of those industrial facts which are the events 
of small towns, had taken place. The details are important, 
and we think it useful to develop them, we might almost say, 
to underline them. 

From time immemorial M. sur M. had as its special indus- 
try the imitation of English jet and German black beads. 
This trade had hitherto only vegetated, owing to the cost of 
the raw material, which reacted on the manufacturer. At 
the time when Fantine returned to M. sur M., an extraor- 
dinary change had taken place in the production of “ black 
goods.” Toward the close of 1815, a man, a stranger, had 
settled in the town, and had the idea of substituting gum lac 
for rosin in this trade, and, in bracelets particularly, clasps 
of bent metal for welded ones. This slight change was a 
revolution; it prodigiously reduced the cost of the raw ma- 


173 


174 FANTINE 


terial, which, in the first place, made it possible to raise wages, 
— a benefit to the town; secondly, to improve the workman- 
ship,— an advantage to the consumer; and, thirdly, to sell 
the goods cheap, while trebling the profit,— an advantage 
to the manufacturer. 

Thus three results proceeded from one idea. In less than 
three years the inventor of the process became rich, which 
is a good thing, and made all about him rich, which is better. 
He was a stranger in the district. No one knew anything 
of his origin, and but little of his beginning. It was said 
that he entered the town with very little money,— a few hun- 
dred francs at most; but with this small capital, placed at 
the service of an ingenious idea, and made fruitful by method 
and thought, he made his own fortune and that of the town. 
On his arrival at M. sur M., he had the dress, manners, and 
language of a working-man. It appears that on the very 
December night when he made his obscure entrance into M. 
sur M., with his knapsack on his back and a knotted stick in 
his hand, a great fire broke out in the Town Hall. This man 
rushed into the midst of the flames, and at the risk of his 
life saved two children who happened to belong to the chief 
of police; hence no one dreamed of asking for his passport. 
Afterward his name was learned; he called himself Father 
Madeleine. 





CHAPTER II 
MADELEINE 


E was a man of about fifty, with a preoccupied air, and 
he was kind-hearted. That was all that could be 

said of him. 
Thanks to the rapid progress of the trade which he had so 
admirably remodelled, M. sur M. became a place of consid- 
erable importance. Spain, which consumes an immense 





FANTINE 175 


amount of jet, gave large orders for it annually; and in 
this trade M. sur M. almost rivalled London and Berlin. 
Father Madeleine’s profits were so great that after the second 
year he was able to build a large factory, in which were two 
spacious workshops,— one for men, the other for women. 
Any one who was hungry had only to present himself there, 
and was sure to find employment and bread. Father Made- 
leine expected from the men good-will, from the women pu- 
rity, and from all honesty. He divided the work-shops in 
order to separate the sexes, and to enable the women and girls 
to remain virtuous. On this point he was inflexible, and it 
was the only one on which he was at all intolerant. This 
severity was the more justifiable because M. sur M. was a 
garrison town, and opportunities for corruption abounded. 
Altogether his arrival had been a benefit, and his presence was 
a providence. Before Father Madeleine came, everything 
languished, and now all led the healthy life of work. A 
powerful circulation warmed and penetrated everything; dull 
seasons and wretchedness were unknown. ‘There was not a 
pocket, however obscure, in which there was not a little money, 
nor a home so poor that there was not a little joy in it. 
Father Madeleine, as we have said, employed everybody; he 
only insisted on one thing,— Be an honest man! Be a good 
girl! 

As we have said, in the midst of this activity, of which 
he was the cause and the pivot, Father Madeleine made his 
fortune; but, singularly enough in a plain man of business, 
this did not appear to be his chief care. He seemed to think 
a great deal of others and but little of himself. In 1820, he 
was known to have a sum of 630,000 francs to his credit in 
Lafitte’s bank; but before he put that amount on one side 
he had spent more than a million for the town and the poor. 
The hospital was badly endowed, and he added ten beds. M. 
sur M. is divided into an upper and a lower town; the latter, 
in which he lived, had only one school, a shabby edifice fall- 
ing to ruin; he built two,— one for boys and one for girls. 
He paid the two teachers from his own pocket an amount 


176 FANTINE 


double their poor official salary, and to some one who ex- 
pressed surprise, he said, “ The two highest functionaries of 
the State are the nurse and the schoolmaster.” He estab- 
lished at his own expense an infant school,— a thing at that 


time almost unknown in France,— and a charitable fund for . 


old and infirm workmen. As his factory was a centre, a new 
district in which there was a large number of indigent fam- 
ilies, rapidly sprang up around it, and he opened a free dis- 
pensary. 

In the beginning, kind souls said, “ He is a fellow who 
wants to grow rich;” when it was seen that he enriched the 
town before enriching himself, the same charitable souls said, 
‘“‘ He is ambitious.” ‘This seemed the more likely because 
he was religious, and even practised his religion to a certain 
extent,— a thing which was admired in those days. He went 
regularly to hear low mass on Sundays; and the local deputy, 
who scented rivalry everywhere, soon became alarmed at his 
piety. This deputy, who had been a member of the legisla- 
tive body of the empire, shared the religious ideas of a father 
of the Oratory, known by the name of Fouché, Duke 
d’Otranto, whose creature and friend he had been. But when 
he saw the rich manufacturer Madeleine go to seven o’clock 
low mass, he scented a possible candidate, and resolved to go 
beyond him. He chose a Jesuit confessor, and went to high 
mass and vespers. Ambition at that time was, in the true 
sense of the term, a steeple-chase. ‘The poor profited by the 
alarm, for the honourable deputy founded two beds at the 
hospital, which made twelve. 

However, in 1819, a report pind one morning through 
the town that, on the recommendation of the prefect, and in 
consideration of services rendered the town, Father Made- 
leine was about to be made by the king mayor of M 
Those who had declared the new-comer an ambitious man, 
eagerly seized this opportunity to exclaim, “ There! what did 
we say?” All M was in an uproar; for the rumour 
was well founded. A few days after, the appointment ap- 
peared in the “ Moniteur,” and the next day Father Made- 











FANTINE 177 


leine declined the honour. In the same year, the new proc- 
esses invented by him were shown at the Industrial Exhibi- 
tion; and on the report of the jury, the king made the 
inventor a knight of the Legion of Honour. There was a 
fresh commotion in the little town. Well, it was the cross 
he wanted! Father Madeleine declined the cross. Decidedly 
the man was an enigma, but charitable souls got out of the 
difficulty by saying, “* After all, he is a sort of adventurer.” 

As we have seen, the country owed him much, and the 
poor owed him everything. He was so useful that he could 
not prevent people from honouring him, and so gentle that 
people could not help loving him. His work-people, espe- 
cially, adored him; and he bore this adoration with a sort of 
melancholy gravity. When he was known to be rich, “ peo- 
ple in society ” bowed to him, and he was called in the town 
Monsieur Madeleine; but his workmen and the children con- 
tinued to call him Father Madeleine, and this was the thing 
best suited to make him smile. In proportion as he ascended, 
invitations were showered upon him, and society claimed him 
as its own. The prim little drawing-rooms, which were, of 
course, closed to the artisan, opened their doors wide to the 
millionaire. A thousand advances were made to him, but he 
refused them all. Here again charitable souls were not 
thrown out. “ He is an ignorant man, of poor education. 
No one knows where he came from. He could not pass mus- 
ter in society, and it is doubtful whether he can read.” When 
he was seen to be earning money, they said, ** He is a trades- 
man;’? when he scattered his money, they said, “‘ He is am- 
bitious;?? when he rejected honours, they said, “ He is an 
adventurer,” and when he repulsed society, they said, “ He is 
a brute.” 


In 1820, five years after his arrival at M » the serv- 





ices he had rendered the town were so brilliant, ne desire of 


the whole country was so unanimous, that the king again 

made him mayor of the town. He again refused, but the 

prefect would not accept his refusal. All the notables came 

to eet him, the people supplicated him on the open streets ; 
2 


178 FANTINE 


and the pressure was so great that he eventually assented. It 
was noticed that what appeared specially to determine him 
was the almost angry remark of an old woman, who cried to 
him from her door: “A good mayor is useful. A man 
should not draw back from the good he can do.” This was 
the third phase of his ascent. Father Madeleine had become 
Monsieur Madeleine. and Monsieur Madeleine became Mr. 
Mayor. 





CHAPTER III 
SUMS LODGED AT LAFITTE’S 


ATHER MADELEINE remained as simple as on the 
first day. He had gray hair, a serious eye, the 
bronzed complexion of a working-man, and the thoughtful 
face of a philosopher. He habitually wore a broad-brimmed 
hat, and a long coat of coarse cloth, buttoned up to the chin. 
He performed his duties as mayor, but beyond that he led 
a solitary life. He spoke to few persons, liked to escape 
from compliments, smiled to save himself from talking, and 
gave to save himself from smiling. ‘The women said of him, 
‘What a good-natured bear!” Hus great pleasure was to 
walk about the fields. He always took his meals alone, with 
an open book before him, and he had a well-selected library. 
He was fond of books, for they are cool but sure friends. In 
proportion as leisure came with fortune, he seemed to employ 
it in cultivating his mind. It was noticed that with each 
year he spent in M his language became more polite, 
more choice, and more gentle. 

He was fond of taking a gun with him on his walks, but 
rarely fired. When he did happen to do so, he had an in- 
fallible aim, which was almost terrific. He never killed a 
harmless animal or a small bird. Though he was no longer 
young, he was said to possess prodigious strength. He lent 








FANTINE 179 


a hand to any one who needed it, raised a fallen horse, put 
his shoulder to a wheel stuck in the mud, or stopped a run- 
away bull by the horns. His pockets were always full of 
small change when he went out, and empty when he came 
home. Whenever he passed through the village, the ragged 
children ran merrily after him, and surrounded him like a 
swarm of gnats. It was supposed that he must have formerly 
lived a rustic life, for he had all sorts of useful secrets which 
he taught the peasants. He showed them how to destroy 
blight in wheat by sprinkling about the granary and pour- 
ing into the cracks of the boards a solution of common salt, 
and to get rid of the weevils by hanging up everywhere, on 
the walls and roofs, flowering orviot. He had recipes to ex- 
tirpate, from arable land, tares and other parasitic plants 
which injure wheat, and would protect a rabbit hutch from 
rats by the mere smell of a little Guinea pig, which he placed 
in it. 

One day he saw some countrymen very busy in tearing up 
nettles. He looked at the pile of uprooted and already with- 
~ ered plants, and said, “ They are dead, and yet they are good 
if you know how to use them. When nettles are young, 
the tops are an excellent vegetable. When they are old, they 
have threads and fibres like hemp and flax. Nettle cloth is 
as good as linen. When chopped up, nettles are good for 
fowls; when pounded, excellent for horned cattle. Nettle- 
seed mixed with fodder makes the coats of cattle shine; and 
the root mixed with salt produces a fine yellow dye. The 
nettle also makes excellent hay, which can be mown twice; 
and what does it require? —a little earth, no care, and no 
cultivation. ‘The only thing is that the seed falls as it rip- 
ens, and is difficult to garner. If a little care were taken, 
the nettle would be useful; but being neglected, it becomes 
injurious, and is killed. How many men are like nettles!” 
He added after a moment’s silence: ‘“‘ My friends, remem- 
ber this: there are no bad herbs or bad men; there are only 
bad cultivators.” 

The children also loved him, because he could make them 


180 FANTINE 


pretty little toys of straw and cocoa-nut shells. When he 
saw a church door hung with black, he went in. He sought 
a funeral as other persons seek a christening. The misfor- 
tunes of others attracted him, owing to his great gentle- 
ness. He mingled with friends in mourning, and with the 
priests around a coffin. He seemed fond of hearing those 
mournful psalms which are full of the vision of another world. 
With his eyes fixed on heaven, he listened, with a sort of 
aspiration toward all the mysteries of Infinitude, to the sad 
voices singing on the brink of the dark abyss of death. He 
did a number of good actions, while as careful to hide them 
as if they were bad. He would quietly enter houses at night, 
and furtively ascend the stairs. A poor fellow, on returning 
to his garret, would find that his door had been opened, 
sometimes forced, during his absence. The man would cry 
that a robber had been there; but when he entered, the first 
thing he saw was a gold coin left’on the table. The “ rob- 
ber ” who had been there was Father Madeleine. 

He was affable and sad. People said, ‘* There is a rich 
man who does not look proud; a lucky man who does not look 
happy.” Some persons asserted that he was a mysterious 
character, and declared that no one ever entered his bed- 
room, which was a real anchorite’s cell, furnished with winged 
hour-glasses, and embellished with cross-bones and _ skulls. 
This was so often repeated that certain elegant and spiteful 
young ladies of M came to him one day, and said, “* Mr. 
Mayor, do show us your bedroom, for people say that it is a 
grotto.” He smiled and led them straightway to the 
“* grotto; ” they were terribly punished for their curiosity, 
as it was a bedroom merely containing mahogany furniture as 
ugly as all furniture of that sort, and hung with a paper at 
twelve sous a roll. They saw nothing unusual but two dou- 
ble-branched candlesticks of an antiquated pattern, standing 
on the mantelpiece, which seemed to be silver “‘ because they 
were hall-marked,”——a remark full of the wit of small 
towns. People did not the less continue to repeat, how- 
ever, that no one ever entered this bedroom, and that it was 








FANTINE 181 


a hermitage, a hole, a tomb. They also whispered that he 
had “ immense ” sums lodged with Lafitte, and with this pe- 
culiarity, that they were always at his immediate disposal; 
“so that,” they added, “‘ M. Madeleine could go any morn- 
ing to Lafitte’s, sign a receipt, and carry off his two or three 
millions of francs in ten minutes.” In reality these ‘ two 
or three millions ”? were reducible, as we have said, to six hun- 
dred and thirty or forty thousand francs. 





CHAPTER IV 


M. MADELEINE GOES INTO MOURNING 





A’ the beginning of 1821, the papers announced the de- 

cease of M. Myriel, bishop of D , “surnamed 
Monseigneur Bienvenu,” who died in the odour of sanctity at 
the age of eighty-two. The bishop of D , to add a de- 
tail omitted by the papers, had been blind for several years, 
and was content to be blind, as his sister was by his side. 

Let us say parenthetically, that to be blind and to be loved 
is one of the most strangely exquisite forms of happiness 
upon this earth, where nothing is perfect. To have con- 
tinually at your side a wife, a sister, a daughter, a charming 
being, who is there because you need her, and because she 
cannot do without you; to know yourself indispensable to a 
woman who is necessary to you; to be able constantly te 
gauge her affection by the amount of her presence which she 
gives you, and to say to yourself: ‘*She devotes all her 
time to me because I possess her entire heart; to see her 
thoughts in default of her face; to prove the fidelity of one 
being amidst the eclipse of the world; to catch the rustle of 
a dress like the sound of wings; to hear her come and go, 
leave the room, return, talk, sing, and then to dream that you 
are the centre of those steps, those words, those songs; to 





182 FANTINE 


manifest at every moment your own personal attraction, and 
feel yourself powerful in proportion to your weakness ; to be- 
come, in darkness and through darkness, the planet round 
which this angel gravitates,— but few felicities equal this. 
The supreme happiness of life is the conviction that you are 
loved for yourself, or, more correctly speaking, loved in spite 
of yourself; and this conviction the blind man has. In his 
distress, to be served is to be caressed. Does he want for 
anything? No. When you possess love, you have not lost 
the light. And what love! a love wholly made of virtue. 
There is no blindness where there is certainty. ‘The groping 
soul seeks a soul and finds it; and this found and tested soul 
is a woman. A hand supports you,— it is hers; lips touch 
your brow,— they are hers; you hear a breath close to you, 
— it is hers. : 

To have everything of hers, from her worship to her pity, 
never to be left, to have this gentle weakness to succour you, 
to lean on this unbending reed, to touch Providence with your 
hands, and be able to take it in your arms,— O God made 
tangible, what rapture is this! The heart, that obscure celes- 
tial flower, expands mysteriously, and you would not ex- 
change this shadow for all the light! The angel soul is 
there, ever there. If she go away, it is to return; she dis- 
appears like a dream, and reappears like reality. You 
feel warmth approach,— it is she. You overflow with seren- 
ity, ecstasy, and gayety; you are a sunbeam in the night. 
And then the thousand little attentions, the nothings which 
are so enormous in that void! The most ineffable accents of 
the human voice employed to lull you, and taking the place 
of the vanished universe. You are caressed with the soul; 
you see nothing, but you feel yourself adored. It is a para- 
dise of darkness. 

It was from this paradise that Monseigneur Bienvenu 
passed to the other. The announcement of his death was 
copied by the local paper of M , and on the next day M. 
Madeleine appeared dressed in black, with crape on his hat. 
The mourning was noticed in the town, and the people gas- 





FANTINE 183 


siped about it; for it seemed to throw light on M. Madelzine’s 
origin. It was concluded that he was somehow connected with 
the bishop. ‘‘ He is in mourning for the bishop,” was said 
in drawing-rooms; this added inches to M. Madeleine’s stat- 
ure, and suddenly gave him a certain consideration in the 
noble world of M The microscopic Faubourg St. Ger- 
main of the town thought of raising the quarantine of M. 
Madeleine, the probable relation of a bishop; and M. Made- 
leine remarked the promotion he had obtained in the increased 
courtesies of the old ladies, and the greater amount of smiles 
from the young. One evening a lady belonging to this 
great world, curious by right of seniority, ventured to say, 
“Mr. Mayor, you are doubtless a cousin of the late bishop 
of D ae? | 

He answered, ** No, madame.” 

“* But,” the dowager went on, “ you wear mourning for 
him.” 

“In my youth I was a footman in his family,” was the an- 
swer. 

Another thing noticed was, that when a young Savoyard 
passed through the town looking for chimneys to sweep, the 
mayor sent for him, asked his name, and gave him money. 
The Savoyard boys told each other of this, and a great many 
passed through M : 














CHAPTER V 
VAGUE FLASHES ON THE HORIZON 


Y degrees, and with time, all slander and opposition died 
out. At first there had been calumnies against M. 
Madeleine,— a penalty to which all rising men must sub- 
mit; then it was only back-biting; then it was only malice; 
and eventually all this faded away. The respect felt for 


184 FANTINE 


him became complete, unanimous, and cordial, and there came 
a time, in 1821, when the name of the mayor was uttered 
at M in almost the same tone that “ my lord bishop ” was 
said at D in 1815. People came from ten leagues round 
to consult M. Madeleine; he settled disputes, prevented law- 
suits, and reconciled enemies. Everybody was willing to ac- 
cept him as arbiter; and it seemed as if he had the book of 
natural law for his soul. It was a sort of contagious ven- 
eration, which in six or seven years spread all over the coun- 
try-side. 

Only one man in the town and district resisted this cen- 
tagion, and, whatever M. Madeleine might do, remained re- 
bellious to it, as if a sort of incorruptible and imperturbable 
instinct kept him on his guard. It would appear, in fact, 
as if there were in certain men a genuine animal instinct, 
though pure and honest as all instincts are, which creates 
sympathies and antipathies; which fatally separates one na- 
ture from another; which never hesitates; which is never 








troubled, is never silent, and never contradicts itself; which - 


is clear in its obscurity, infallible, imperious; refractory to 
all the counsels of intelligence and all the solvents of reason, 
and which, whatever the way in which destinies are made, 
surely warns the man-dog of the man-cat, and the man-fox 
of the presence of the man-lion. It often happened when 
M. Madeleine passed along a street calm, kindly, and greeted 
by the blessings of all, that a tall man, dressed in an iron- 
gray frock coat, armed with a stout cane, and wearing a hat 
with turned-down brim, turned suddenly and watched him till 
he disappeared; folding his arms, shaking his head slowly, 
and raising his upper lip with the lower as high as his nose,— 
a sort of significant grimace, which might be translated, 
Who is that man? I am certain that I have seen him some- 
where. At any rate, I am not his dupe.” 

This person, who was grave, with an almost menacing 
gravity, was one of those men who, though only noticed for 
a moment, preoccupy the observer. His name was Javert; 
he belonged to the police, and performed at M the pain- 








. FANTINE 185 


ful but useful duties of an inspector. He had not seen M. 
Madeleine’s beginning, for he was indebted for the post he 
occupied to the secretary of Count Anglés, at that time pre- 
fect of police at Paris. When Javert came to M the 
great manufacturer’s fortune was made, and Father Made- 
leine had become Monsieur Madeleine. Some police officers 
have a peculiar face, which is complicated by an air of base- 
ness, blended with an air of authority. Javert had this face, 
without the baseness. It is our conviction that if souls were 
visible we should distinctly see the strange fact that every 
individual of the human species corresponds to some one spe- 
cies of the animal creation; and we might easily recognize 
the truth, which has as yet scarce occurred to the thinker, 
that, from the oyster to the eagle, from the hog to the tiger, 
all animals are in man, and that each of them is in some man, 
— at times, several of them at once. Animals are nothing 
else than the figures of our virtues and our vices wandering 
before our eyes,— the visible phantoms of our souls. God 
shows these to us in order to make us reflect; but as animals 
are only shadows, God has not made them capable of educa- 
tion in the complete sense of the term, for of what use would 
it be? On the other hand, our souls being realities and hav- 
ing an aim of their own, God has endowed them with intelli- 
gence,— that is to say, the possibility of education. Social 
education, properly carried out, can always draw out of a 
soul, no matter what its nature, such utility as it contains. 
This be it said, of course, from the limited point of view of 
life apparent here on earth, without prejudging the weighty 
question of the anterior or, ulterior personality of the beings 
which are not man. The visible ego in no wise justifies the 
thinker in denying the latent ego. ‘This qualification being 
made, let us go on. 

Now, if the reader will admit with me for a moment that 
in every man there is one of the animal species of creation, it 
will be easy for us to say what Javert the policeman was. 
Austrian peasants are convinced that in every litter of wolves 
there is a dog, which is killed by the mother; for, otherwise, 





186 FANTINE 


when it grew up it would devour the other whelps. Give a 
human face to this dog-son of a wolf, and we shall have 
Javert. He was born in prison; his mother was a fortune- 
teller, whose husband was in the galleys. When he grew 
up, he thought that he was beyond the pale of society, and 
despaired of ever entering it. He noticed that society inex- 
orably keeps at bay two classes of men,— those who attack 
it, and those who guard it. He had only a choice between 
these two classes, and at the same time felt within him an 
indescribable fund of rigidness, regularit--. and probity, com- 
bined with an inexpressible hatred of the race of Bohemians 
to which he belonged. He entered the police, got on, and at 
the age of forty was an inspector. In his youth he was en- 
gaged in the southern galleys. | 

Before going further, let us explain the words “ human 
face ’ which we applied just now to Javert. His human face 
consisted of a snub-nose, with two deep nostrils, toward which 
enormous whiskers mounted on his cheeks. You felt un- 
comfortable the first time that you saw those two forests and 
those two caverns. When Javert laughed, which was rare 
and terrible, his thin lips parted, and displayed, not only his 
teeth, but his gums, and a savage flat fold formed round his 
nose, such as is seen on the muzzle of a wild beast. Javert 
when serious was a bull-dog; when he laughed he was a tiger. 
To sum up, he had but little skull and plenty of jaw; his hair 
hid his forehead and fell over his brows; he had between his 
eyes a central and permanent frown, like a star of anger, an 
‘obscure glance, a pinched and formidable mouth, and an air 
of ferocious command. 

This man was made up of two very simple and relatively 
excellent feelings, which he almost rendered bad by exag- 
gerating them,— respect for authority and hatred of rebel- 
lion; and in his eyes, robbery, murder, and every crime were 
only forms of rebellion. He enveloped in a species of blind 
faith everybody in the service of the State, from the prime 
minister down to the game-keeper. He covered with con- 
tempt, aversion, and disgust every one who had crossed the 


FANTINE 187 


legal threshold of evil. He was absolute, and admitted of no 
exceptions; on the one hand he said: ‘* A functionary can- 
not be mistaken, a magistrate can do no wrong;” on the 
other he said: ‘* They are irremediably lost; no good can 
come of them.” He fully shared the opinion of those extreme 
minds which attribute to human law some power of making, 
or, if you like, of proving the existence of demons, and which 
place a Styx at the bottom of society. He was stoical, stern, 
and austere; a sad dreamer, humble yet haughty, like all 
fanatics. His glance was like a gimlet, cold and piercing. 
His whole life lay in the two words, watchfulness and super- 
vision. He had introduced a straight line into what is the 
most torturous thing in the world; he was conscious of his 
usefulness, had religious respect for his duties, and was a spy 
just as some men are priests. Woe to the wretch who fell 
into his clutches! He would have arrested his father if escap- 
ing from prison, and denounced his mother had she broken 
her ban; and he would have done it with that sort of inner 
satisfaction conferred by virtue. With all this he led a life 
of privation, isolation, self-denial, chastity,— never a distrac- 
tion. He was the embodiment of duty, the police understood 
as the Spartans understood Sparta, a pitiless watchman, 
fiercely honest, a marble-hearted spy, a Brutus combined with 
a Vidocq. 

Javert’s entire person expressed the man who spies and 
who hides. ‘The mystic school of Joseph de Maistre which at 
this epoch was seasoning with high cosmogony what were 
called the ultra journals, would not have failed to say that 
Javert was a symbol. His forehead could not be seen, for 
it was hidden by his hat; his eyes could not be seen, because 
they were lost under his eyebrows; his chin was plunged into 
his cravat, his hands were covered by his cuffs, and his 
cane was carried under his coat. But when the opportunity 
came, there suddenly emerged from all this shadow, as from 
an ambush, an angular, narrow forehead, a fatal glance, a 
threatening chin, enormous hands, and a monstrous rattan. 
In his leisure moments, which were few, he read, though he 


188 FANTINE 


hated books, and therefore he was not utterly ignorant, as 
could be recognized by a certain emphasis in his language. 
As we have said, he had no vice; when satisfied with himself, 
he indulged in a pinch of snuff, and that was his connecting 
link with humanity. Our readers will readily understand 
that Javert was the terror of all that class whom the yearly 
statistics of the minister of justice class under the head, 
“‘ Without regular occupation.” The name of Javert, if ut- 
tered, set them to flight; the face of Javert, if seen, petrified 
them. Such was this terrible man. 

Javert was like an eye ever fixed on M. Madeleine,— an 
eye full of suspicion and conjecture. M. Madeleine noticed 
it at last; but he considered it a matter of no importance. 
He did not even ask Javert his motive; he neither sought nor 
shunned him, and endured his annoying and almost oppressive 
gaze without appearing to notice it. He treated Javert as 
he did every one else, easily and kindly. From some re- 
marks dropped by Javert, it was supposed that he had se- 
cretly sought, with that curiosity belonging to the breed, and 
in which there is as much instinct as will, all the previous 
traces which Father Madeleine might have left. He seemed 
to know, and sometimes said covertly, that some one had ob- 
tained certain information in a certain district about a certain 
family which had disappeared. Once he happened to say, 
speaking to himself, ‘I believe that I have got him;” then 
he was lost in thought for three days without saying a word. 
It seemed that the thread which he fancied he held, was 
broken. However,— and this is the necessary corrective for 
the too absolute meaning which certain remarks might offer, 
— there cannot be any really infallible theory in a human 
creature, and it is the peculiarity of instinct that it may be 
confused, thrown out, routed; if not, 1t would be superior to 
intelligence, and the brute would have a better insight than 
man. Javert was evidently somewhat disconcerted by M. 
Madeleine’s complete naturalness and calmness. One day, 
however, his strange manner seemed to produce an impression 
on M. Madeleine. ‘The occasion was as follows. 


FANTINE 189 


CHAPTER VI 
FATHER FAUCHELEVENT 


S M. Madeleine was passing one morning through an 
unpaved lane in the town, he heard a noise, and saw 
a group at some distance. He went towards it. An old 
man, known as Father Fauchelevent, had fallen under his 
cart, and his horse was lying on the ground. This Fau- 
chelevent was one of the few enemies M. Madeleine still had 
at this time. When M. Madeleine came to those parts, 
Fauchelevent, an ex-notary and a tolerably well-educated fel- 
low, was doing badly in business, and he saw the simple work- 
man grow rich, while he, his superior, was ruined. This filled 
him with jealousy, and he did all in his power, on every pos- 
sible occasion, to injure M. Madeleine. Then bankruptcy 
came; and in his old age, having only a horse and cart left, 
and no family, he had turned carter to earn a living. 

The horse had both legs broken and could not get up, while 
the old man was caught between the wheels. The fall had 
been so unfortunate that the whole weight of the cart rested 
on his chest ; and it was heavily loaded. Fauchelevent uttered 
lamentable groans. Attempts had been made, though in 
vain, to draw him out; but any irregular effort, any clumsy 
help or shock, might kill him. It was impossible to extricate 
him except by raising the cart from below, and Javert, who 
came up at the moment of the accident, had sent to fetch a 
jack-screw. When M. Madeleine appeared, the mob made 
way respectfully. 

“ Help!” cried Fauchelevent. ‘“* Is there no good soul who 
will save an old man? ” 

M. Madeleine turned to the spectators. 

“ Have you a jack-screw? ” 

“They have gone to fetch one,” answered a peasant. 

‘© How soon will it be here? ” 


190 FANTINE 


“ Well, they went to the nearest place,— Flachot the black- 
smith’s ; but it don’t matter: it will take a good quarter of an 
hour.” 

‘* A quarter of an hour!” exclaimed Madeleine. 

It had rained on the previous night, the ground was soaked, 
the cart sank deeper at every moment, and crushed the old 
man’s chest more and more. It was evident that his ribs 
would be broken within five minutes. 

“It is impossible to wait a quarter of an hour,” said Made- 
leine to the peasants who were looking on. 

“We must.” 

“But do you not see that the cart is sinking into the 
ground? ” 

** Hang it, so it is!” 

*¢ Listen to me,”? continued Madeleine; “‘ there is still room 
enough for a man to slip under the cart, and raise it with his 
back. It will only take half a minute, and the poor man can 
be drawn out. Is there any one here who has strong loins 
and a kind heart? There are five louis to be earned.” 

No one stirred. 

** Ten louis,” said Madeleine. 

The spectators looked down, and one of them muttered, 
‘* A man would have to be deucedly strong, and besides, he 
would run a risk of being smashed.” 

** Come,” resumed Madeleine, “ twenty louis.” 

The same silence. 

** It is not good-will they lack,” cried a voice. 

Madeleine turned and recognized Javert; he had not no- 
ticed him when he came up. Javert continued : — 

“It is strength. A man would have to be tremendously 
strong to lift a cart like that on his back.” 

Then, looking fixedly at M. Madeleine, he continued, lay- 
ing a marked stress on every word he uttered: — 

** Monsieur Madeleine, I never knew but one man capable 
of doing what you ask.” 

Madeleine started, but Javert continued carelessly, though 
without taking his eyes off him. 


FANTINE 191 


‘“* He was a galley-slave.” 

** Indeed! ” said Madeleine. 

“ At the Toulon galleys.” 

Madeleine turned pale; but the cart was slowly settling 
down, and Father Fauchelevent was screaming : — 

“T am choking; it is breaking my ribs; a jack-screw! 
something — oh!” 

M. Madeleine looked around him. 

“Is there no one here willing to earn twenty louis and save 
this poor man’s life? ” 

No one stirred, and Javert repeated : — 

“IT never knew but one man capable of acting as a jack, 
and it was that convict.” 

** Oh, it is crushing me!” the old man yelled. 

M. Madeleine raised his head, met Javert’s falcon eye still 
fixed on him, gazed at the motionless peasants, and smiled 
sadly. Then, without a word, he fell on his knees, and, ere 
the crowd had time to utter a cry, was under the cart. ‘There 
was a frightful moment of expectation and silence. M. 
Madeleine, almost flat on his stomach under the tremendous 
weight, twice tried in vain to bring his elbows up to his knees. 
The peasants shouted: ‘ Father Madeleine, come out!” 
And old Fauchelevent himself said, ‘* Monsieur Madeleine, go 
away! I must die, so leave me; you will be killed too.” 

M. Madeleine made no answer; the spectators gasped, the 
wheels continued to sink, and it was now almost impossible 
for him to get out from under the cart. All at once the 
enormous mass shook, the cart slowly rose, and the wheels 
half emerged from the rut. A stifled voice cried, ‘‘ Make 
haste! help!” It was M. Madeleine, who had made a last 
effort. 

They rushed forward, for the devotion of one man had 
restored strength and courage to all. The cart was lifted 
by twenty arms, and old Fauchelevent was saved. M. 
Madeleine rose; he was livid, although dripping with perspi- 
ration; his clothes were torn and covered with mud. The old 
man kissed his knees and called him his saviour, while M. 


192 FANTINE 


Madeleine wore a strange expression of happy and celestial 
suffering, and he turned his placid eye on Javert, who was 
still looking at him. 





CHAPTER VII 
FAUCHELEVENT BECOMES A GARDENER AT PARIS 


AUCHELEVENT had dislocated his knee-cap in his 
fall, and Father Madeleine had him carried to an in- 
firmary he had established in his factory for the workmen, 
and which was managed by two sisters of charity. The next 
morning the old man found a thousand-franc note by his 
bedside, with a line in Madeleine’s handwriting: ‘“‘ Payment 
for your cart and horse, which I have bought.” The cart 
was smashed and the horse dead. Fauchelevent recovered, 
but his leg remained stiff, and hence M. Madeleine, by the rec- 
ommendation of the sisters and his priest, procured him a 
situation as gardener at a convent in the St. Antoine quarter 
of Paris. 

Some time after, M. Madeleine was made mayor; the first 
time Javert saw him wearing the scarf which gave him all 
authority in the town, he felt that sort of excitement a dog 
would feel which scented a wolf in its master’s clothes. From 
this moment he avoided him as much as he could. When duty 
imperatively compelled him, and he could not do otherwise 
than appear before the mayor, he addressed him with pro- 
found respect. 

The prosperity created in M by Father Madeleine 
had, in addition to the visible signs which we have described, 
another symptom, which, though not visible, was not the less 
significant, for it is one that never deceives. When the popu-: 
lation suffers, when work is scarce and trade bad, tax-payers 
exhaust and exceed the time granted them, and the State 





FANTINE _ 198 


spends a good deal of money in enforcing payment. When 
work abounds, when the country is happy and rich, the taxes 
are paid cheerfully, and cost the State little. We may say 
that wretchedness and the public exchequer have an infallible 
thermometer in the cost of collecting the taxes. In seven 
years these costs had been reduced three-fourths in the dis- 
trict of M , a fact which caused it to be frequently 
quoted by M. de Villele, at that time minister of finance. 

Such was the state of the town when Fantine returned to 
it. No one remembered her, but luckily the door of M. 
Madeleine’s factory was like a friendly face; she presented 
herself at it, and was admitted to the women’s workroom. 
As the trade was quite new to her, she was awkward and 
earned but small wages; but that was enough. She had 
solved the problem,— she was earning her livelihood. 








CHAPTER VIII 
MADAME VICTURNIEN SPENDS THIRTY FRANCS ON MORALITY 


HEN Fantine saw that she could gain her living, she 

had a moment of joy. To live honestly by her own 

toil, what a favour of Heaven! The taste for work really 

came back to her. She bought a looking-glass, enjoyed see- 

ing in it her youth, her lovely hair, and her fine teeth; for- 

got many things, thought only of Cosette and her possible 

future, and was almost happy. She hired a small room and 

furnished it, on credit, to be paid for out of her future earn- 
ings,— this was a relic of her irregular habits. 

Not being able to say that she was married, she was very 
careful not to drop a word about her child. At the outset, 
as we have seen, she paid the Thénardiers punctually; and 
as she could only sign her name, she was compelled to write 
to — through the agency of a public letter-writer. It was 


194 FANTINE 


noticed that she wrote frequently. It began to be whispered 
in the shop that Fantine “ wrote letters,” and was “ carry- 
ing on.” 

No one spies the actions of other persons so much as those 
whom they do not concern. Why does such an one never 
come home till nightfall? Why does So-and-so never hang 
up his key on Thursdays? Why does he always take back 
streets? Why does Madame always get out of her 
coach before reaching her house? Why does she send out 
to buy a quire of note-paper, when she has a desk full? and 
soon. ‘There are people who, in order to solve these enigmas, 
which are matters of utter indifference to them, spend more 
money, lavish more time, and take more trouble than would 
be required for ten good deeds; and they do it gratuitously 
for the pleasure, and are only paid for their curiosity with 
curiosity. They will follow a gentleman or a lady for whole 
days, will stand sentry at the corner of a street or in a gate- 
way at night in the cold and rain, bribe messengers, intoxi- 
cate hackney coachmen and footmen, tip a lady’s maid, and 
suborn a porter——-why? For nothing at all; from a pure 
desire to see, know, and find out. It is a simple itch for 
talking. And frequently these secrets, when made known, 
these mysteries once published, these enigmas brought to day- 
light, entail catastrophes, duels, bankruptcies, ruin of fami- 
lies, to the great delight of those who “ found it all out,” 
without any personal motive, from mere instinct. It is a sad 
thing. Some persons are wicked solely through a desire to 
talk; and their conversation, which is gossip in the drawing- 
room, scandal in the anteroom, is like those chimneys which 
consume wood rapidly,— it requires a great deal of fuel; and 
this fuel is their neighbour. 

Thus Fantine was watched; and more than one girl was 
jealous of her fair hair and white teeth. It was noticed that 
she often turned and wiped away a tear in the shop; this was 
when she was thinking of her child, perhaps also of the man 
she had loved. It is a painful task to break all the gloomy 
links which connect us with the past. It was proved that she 





oe 


a 





FANTINE 195 


wrote at least twice a month, and always to the same address, 
and paid the postage. Some one managed to obtain the ad- 
dress: ‘‘ M. Thénardier, Publican, Montfermeil.” The pub- 
lic letter-writer, who could not fill his stomach with red wine 
without emptying his pocket of secrets, was made to talk at 
the wine-shop; and, in short, it was known that Fantine had 
a child. &lt;A gossip undertook a journey to Montfermeil, spoke 
to the Thénardiers, and on her return said, *‘ I do not be- 
grudge my thirty francs, for I have seen the child.” 

The gossip who did this was a Gorgon of the name of 
Victurnien, guardian and portress of everybody’s virtue. She 
was fifty-six years of age, and covered the mask of ugliness 
with the mask of old age. A quavering voice, and a capri- 
cious mind. Astounding to say, this old woman had once 
been young; in her youth, in ‘93, she had married a monk who 
escaped from the cloisters in a red cap and passed over from 
the Cistercians to the Jacobins. She was dry, crabbed, sharp, 
thorny, and almost venomous,— all this in remembrance of her 
monk, whose widow she was, and who had considerably tamed 
her. At the Restoration she had turned bigot, and so en- 
ergetically that the priests forgave her her monk. She had 
a small estate which she had bequeathed with considerable 
ostentation to a religious community, and she was very well 
considered at the Episcopal Palace of Arras. ‘This Madame 
Victurnien went to Montfermeil, and when she returned said, 
‘I have seen the child.” 

All this took time, and Fantine had been more than a year 
at the factory, when one morning the forewoman handed her 
fifty francs in the mayor’s name, and told her that there was 
no more work for her, and she had better leave the town, so 
the mayor said. It was this very month that the Thénardiers, 
after asking for twelve francs instead of seven, had raised 
a claim for fifteen instead of twelve. Fantine was dumb- 
founded ; she could not leave the town, for she owed her rent 
and for her furniture, and fifty francs would not pay those 
debts. She stammered a few words of entreaty, but the fore- 
woman ordered her to leave the shop at once; moreover, Fan- 


196 FANTINE 


tine was but an indifferent workwoman. Crushed by shame 
even more than by despair, she left the factory, and returned 
to her room; her fault then was now known to all! She did 
not feel the strength to say a word; she was advised to see 
the mayor, but dared not do so. ‘The mayor gave her fifty 
francs because he was kind, and discharged her because he was 
just; and she bowed her head to the sentence. 





CHAPTER IX 
SUCCESS OF MADAME VICTURNIEN 


HE monk’s widow, then, was good for something. M. 
Madeleine, however, knew nothing of all this. Life is 
full of similar combinations of events. M. Madeleine made 
it a rule seldom to enter the women’s workroom; he had 
placed at its head an elderly woman whom the priest recom- 
mended, and he had entire confidence in her. She was really 
a respectable, firm, equitable, and just person, full of that 
charity which consists in giving, but not possessing to the 
same extent the charity which comprehends and pardons. M. 
Madeleine trusted to her in everything, for the best of men 
are often forced to delegate their authority ; and it was with 
this full power, and the conviction that she was acting rightly, 
that the forewoman tried, condemned and executed Fantine. 
As for the fifty francs, she had given them out of a sum M. 
Madeleine had intrusted to her for alms and to help the 
work-women, and for which she did not have to account. 
Fantine tried to get a servant’s place in the town, and went 
from house to house; but no one would have anything to do 
with her. She could not leave the town, for the dealer to 
whom she was in debt for her furniture — what furniture ! — 
said to her, “If you go away, I will have you arrested as a 
thief.” The landlord, to whom she owed her rent, said to her, 


— 


FAN TINE 197 


“You are young and pretty; you can pay.” She divided the 
fifty francs between the landlord and the dealer, gave back 
to the latter three-fourths of his goods, only keeping what 
was absolutely necessary, and found herself without work, 
without a trade, with only a bed, and still owing about one 
hundred francs. She set to work at making coarse shirts for 
the soldiers in garrison, and thus earned twelve sous a day, 
her daughter costing her ten. It was at this time that she 
began to fall in arrears with the Thénardiers. An old woman, 
however, who lit her candle for her when she came in at night, 
taught her the way to live in wretchedness. Behind living 
on little, there is living on nothing; there are two chambers, 
— the first is obscure, the second quite dark. 

Fantine learned how to do entirely without fire in winter, 
how to give up a bird that cost her a halfpennyworth of seed 
every two days, how to make a petticoat of her blanket and a 
blanket of her petticoat, and how to save candles by taking 
your meals by the light of the opposite window. We do not 
know all that certain weak creatures, who have grown old in 
want and honesty, can get out of asou. In the end it becomes 
a talent. Fantine acquired this sublime talent, and regained. 
a little courage. At this period she said to a neighbour, 
‘* Nonsense, I say to myself; by only sleeping five hours and 
working all the rest of the time, I shall always manage to 
nearly earn my bread, at any rate. And then, when you are 
sad, you eat less. Well! suffering, anxiety, a little bread on 
the one hand and sorrow on the other,— all this will sup- 
port me.” 

In this distress, it would have been a strange happiness to 
have had her daughter with her, and she thought of sending 
for her. But, what! make her share her destitution? and 
then she owed money to the Thénardiers! How was she to 
pay it and the travelling expenses? The old woman who had 
given her lessons in what may be called indigent life, was a 
pious creature, poor and charitable to the poor and even to 
the rich, who could just write her name, “ Marguerite,” and 


believed in God, which is knowledge. There are many such 


198 FANTINE 


virtuous people here below; and one day they will be up above, 
for this life has a morrow. 

At first, Fantine was so ashamed that she did not dare go 
out. When she was in the streets, she saw that people turned 
around to look at her and pointed to her. Every one stared 
at her, and no one bowed to her; the cold, bitter contempt 
of the passers-by pierced her flesh and her soul like an east 
wind. In small towns an unhappy girl seems to be naked 
beneath the sarcasm and curiosity of all. In Paris, at least, 
no one knows you, and that obscurity is a garment. Oh! how 
glad she would have been to be back in Paris! Impossible. 
She must grow accustomed to disrepute, as she had done to 
poverty. Gradually she made up her mind, and after two or 
three months shook off her shame, and went about as if noth- 
ing had occurred. “It is no matter to me,” she said. She 
came and went with head erect and with a bitter smile, and 
felt that she was growing impudent. Madame Victurnien 
sometimes saw her pass, from her window; she noticed the 
distress of “ the creature’? who, thanks to her, “ knew her 
place,” and congratulated herself. ‘The wicked have a black 
happiness. Excessive labour fatigued Fantine, and her little 
dry cough grew worse. She sometimes said to her neighbour, 
‘“* Marguerite, just feel how hot my hands are!” Still, in 
the morning, when she combed her glorious hair, which shone 
like floss silk, with an old broken comb, she had a minute of 


happy coquetry. 





CHAPTER X 
RESULT OF HER SUCCESS 


HE was discharged toward the end of winter; summer 
passed away, and winter returned. Short days and less 
work ; in winter there is no warmth, no light, no midday, for 
the evening is joined to the morning; there is fog, twilight, 


— 


FANTINE 199 


the window is gray, and you cannot see clearly. The sky 
is like a dark vault, and the sun has the look of a poor man. 
It is a frightful season; winter changes into stone the water 
of heaven and the heart of man. Her creditors pressed her ; 
for Fantine was earning too little, and her debt had increased. 
The Thénardiers, being irregularly paid, constantly wrote 
letters, whose contents afflicted her, and whose postage ruined 
her. One day they wrote her that little Cosette was quite 
naked, cold as it was; that she needed a flannel skirt; and 
that her mother must send at least ten francs for the pur- 
pose. She crumpled the letter in her hands all day, and at 
nightfall went to a barber at the corner of the street and re- 
moved her comb. Her splendid golden hair fell to her knees. 

** What fine hair! ” exclaimed the barber. 

*¢ What will you give me for it? ” she asked. 

“Ten francs.” 

* Cut it off.” 

She bought a knitted skirt and sent it to the Thénardiers; 
it made them furious, for they wanted the money. They 
gave it to Eponine, and the poor Lark continued to shiver. 
Fantine thought, “ My child is no longer cold, for I have 
dressed her in my hair.”? She wore small round caps which 
hid her shorn head, and she still looked pretty in them. 

A dark change took place in Fantine’s heart. When she 
found that she could no longer dress her hair, she began to 
hate all around her. She had long shared the universal ven- 
eration for Father Madeleine ; but, through the constant itera- 
tion that he had discharged her and was the cause of her mis- 
fortune, she grew to hate him too, and worse than the rest. 
When she passed the factory at the time when the workers 
were coming out, she pretended to laugh and sing. An old 
work woman, who once saw her doing so, said, * That’s a girl 
who will come to a bad end.” She took a lover, the first who 
offered,— a man she did not love,— through bravado, and 
with rage in her heart. He was a scoundrel,—a sort of 
mendicant musician, an idle scamp,— whobeat her, and left 
her, as she had chosen him, in disgust. She adored her child. 


200 FANTINE 


The lower she sank, the darker the gloom became around 
her, the more did that sweet little angel gleam in her soul. 
She said: ‘ When I am rich, I shall have my Cosette with 
me;” and she laughed. She did not get rid of her cough, 
and she had cold sweats. 

One day she received from the Thénardiers a letter to the 
following effect,—‘‘ Cosette is ill with a miliary fever, as 
they call it, which is very prevalent. She must have ex- 
pensive drugs, and that ruins us, and we cannot pay for them 
any longer. If you do not send us forty francs within a 
week, the little one will be dead.” She burst into a loud 
laugh, and said to her old neighbour, ‘“‘ Oh, what funny peo- 
ple! They want forty francs; where do they expect me to 
get them? What fools those peasants are!” Still, she went 
to a staircase window and read the letter again; then she went 
out into the street, still laughing and singing. Some one 
who met her said, “ What makes you so merry?” and she 
answered, ‘‘ It is a piece of stupidity some country folk have 
written ; they want forty francs of me, the asses! ” 

As she crossed the market-place, she saw a crowd sur- 
rounding a vehicle of strange shape, on the box of which 
a man dressed in red was haranguing. He was a quack 
dentist going his rounds, who offered the public complete sets 
of teeth, opiates, powders, and elixirs. Fantine joined the 
crowd and began to laugh like the rest at his harangue, in 
which there was slang for the mob and scientific jargon for 
respectable persons. The extractor of teeth saw the pretty 
girl laughing, and suddenly exclaimed :— 

“You have fine teeth, my laughing beauty. If you like 
to sell me your two ivories, I will give you a napoleon apiece 
for them.” 

‘“* My ivories, what are they?” asked Fantine. 

“Your ivories,” said the dentist, “are your two upper 
front teeth.” 

** What a horrible idea! *’ exclaimed Fantine. 

‘“‘'T'wo napoleons!*’ grumbled a toothless old woman by her 
ride; “‘ there’s a lucky girl.” 





FANTINE 201 


Fantine ran away and stopped her ears not to hear the 
hoarse voice of the man, who shouted: ‘* Think it over, my 
dear ; two napoleons may be useful. If your heart says Yes, 
come to-night to the Tillac d’Argent; you will find me there.” 

Fantine, when she reached home, was furious, and told her 
good neighbour Marguerite what had happened. ‘‘ Can you 
understand it? Is he not an abominable man? How can 
people like that be allowed to go about the country? Pull out 
my two front teeth! why, I should look horrible. Hair grows 
again, but teeth!— Oh, the monster! I would sooner 
throw myself head first out of a fifth-floor window on to the 
pavement. He told me he would be at the Tillac d’Argent 
to-night.” 

‘* And what did he offer you? ” asked Marguerite. 

** Two napoleons.” 

‘That makes forty francs.” 

** Yes,” said Fantine, * that makes forty francs.” 

She became thoughtful and sat down to her work. At the 
end of a quarter of an hour, she left the room and read 
Thénardier’s letter again on the staircasé. When she re- 
turned she said to Marguerite :-— 

** Do you know what a miliary fever is? ” 

** Yes,” said the old woman, “ it is an illness.” 

** Does it require much medicine? ” 

‘*¢ Oh, terrible medicine.” 

** How do you catch it? ” 

“It’s a disease you get just so.” 

** Does it attack children? ” 

* Children particularly.” 

** Do people die of it? ” 

* Plenty of them,” said Marguerite. 

_ Fantine got up and read the letter once again on the stair- 
case. At night she went out, and was seen proceeding in the 
direction of the Rue de Paris, where the inns are situated. 
The next morning, when Marguerite entered Fantine’s room 
before daybreak, for they worked together, and thus made 
one candle do for both, she found her sitting on her bed, pale 


202 FANTINE 


and chill; her cap had fallen on her knees. The candle had 
been burning all night and was nearly consumed. Mar- 
guerite stopped in the door-way, horrified by this enormous 
extravagance, and exclaimed :— 

“ Oh, Lord! the candle nearly burnt out! Something must 
have happened.” 

Then she looked at Fantine, who turned her close-shaven 
head toward her, and seemed to have grown ten years older 
since the previous day. _ 

“ Gracious Heaven!” said Marguerite, “‘ what is the mat- 
ter with you, Fantine? ” 

‘“¢ Nothing,” answered the girl; “I am all right. My child 
will not die of that frightful disease for want of help, and I 
am satisfied.” 

As she said this, she pointed to two napoleons that glistened 
on the table. 

“Oh, Lord!” said Marguerite; “why, ’tis a fortune. 
Wherever did you get them from? ” 

“I got them,” answered Fantine. 

At the same time she smiled; the candle lit up her face, 
and it was a bloody smile. A reddish saliva stained the cor- 
ners of her lips, and she had a black hole in her mouth,— 
her two teeth were gone. She sent the forty francs to Mont- 
fermeil. After all, it was only a trick of the Thénardiers to 
get money, for Cosette was not ill. 

- Fantine threw her looking-glass out of the window; she 
had long before left her cell, on the second floor, for a gar- 
ret under the roof,— one of those tenements in which the 
ceiling forms an angle with the floor, and you knock your 
head at every step. ‘The poor man can only reach the end 
of his room, as the end of his destiny, by stooping more and 
more. She had no bed left; she had only a rag which she 
called a blanket, a mattress on the ground, and a bottomless 
chair. A little rose-tree she had, had withered away, forgot- 
ten, in a corner. In another corner she had a pail to hold 
water, which froze in winter, and in which the different levels 
of the water remained marked for a long time by rings of ice. 





FANTINE 203 


She had lost her shame, and now lost her coquetry; the last 
sign was, that she went out with dirty caps. Either through 
want of time or carelessness, she no longer mended her linen; 
and as the heels of her stockings wore out, she tucked them 
into her shoes. This was shown by certain perpendicular 
wrinkles. She mended her worn-out waist with rags of calico, 
which tore away at the slightest movement. The people to 
whom she owed money made “scenes,” and allowed her no 
rest; she met them in the street, she met them again on her 
stairs. She spent night after night in weeping and thinking. 
Her eyes were very bright, and she felt a constant pain at 
the top of her left shoulder-blade, while she coughed fre- 
quently. She deeply hated Father Madeleine, and made no 
complaint. She sewed for seventeen hours a day ;*but a spec- 
ulator hired all the female prisoners, at a discount, and re- 
duced the prices of outside workers to nine sous a day. Seven- 
teen hours’ work for nine sous! Her creditors were more 
pitiless than ever; and the dealer, who had got back nearly all 
his furniture, incessantly said to her, “‘ When are you going 
to pay me, you cheat?” What did they want of her? 
Good heavens! she felt herself hunted, and something of the 
wild beast was aroused in her. About the same time Thénar- 
dier wrote to her that he had decidedly been too patient, and 
that unless he received one hundred francs at once he would 
turn poor Cosette, who had scarcely recovered from her seri- 
ous illness, out-of-doors, into the cold, and she must do what 
she could, or die if she liked. ‘* One hundred francs!” 
thought Fantine; “‘ but where is the trade in which I can 
earn one hundred sous in a day? Well, I will sell all that is 
left!” 
And the unfortunate girl went on the streets. 


204 FANTINE 


CHAPTER XI 
CHRISTUS NOS LIBERAVIT 


HAT is this story of Fantine? It is society buying a 

slave. From whom? From misery, from hunger, 

from cold, from isolation, from abandonment, from destitu- 

tion. Lamentable bargain! a soul for a morsel of bread! 
Misery offers, and society accepts. 

The holy law of Christ governs our civilization, but does 
not yet penetrate it. Slavery is said to have disappeared 
from the civilization of Europe. It has not; it still exists, but 
it weighs down woman alone, and is called prostitution. It 
weighs down woman,— that is to say, grace, weakness, beauty, 
motherhood. ‘This is not one of the least disgraces of man. 
At the point which we have reached in this lamentable drama, 
nothing of what she once had been was left to Fantine. In 
becoming mire, she had become marble; whoever touches her 
is chilled; she passes, she endures you, she ignores you, she 
is the image of dishonour and severity. Life and the social 
order have said their last words to her. All has happened 
to her that can happen. She has felt ali, worne all, experi- 


enced all, suffered all, lost all, wept all; she is resigned, with ' 


that resignation which resembles indifference as death re- 
sembles sleep. She shrinks from nothing, she fears nothing. 
Let all the clouds fall on her, let all the ocean sweep over 
her ; what matters it to her! She is a saturated sponge. 

At least she thinks so; but it is a mistake to imagine 
that one has exhausted destiny and reached the end of any- 
thing. 

Alas! what are all these destinies, urged on thus pell-mell? 
Wither go they? Why are they thus? 

He who can answer this sees the whole shadow. He is one 
only, and His name is God. 


OO _ 


FANTINE 205 


CHAPTER XII 


M. BAMATABOIS’ LEISURE 





HERE is in all small towns, and there was at M in 
particular, a class of young men who squander fifteen 
hundred francs a year in the provinces with the same air 
that their fellows in Paris devour two hundred thousand. 
They are beings of the great neutral species,— geldings, 
parasites, nobodies, who possess a little land, a little folly, 
and a little wit, who would be rustics in a drawing-room, and 
believe themselves gentlemen in a pot-house. They talk about 
“‘my fields, my woods, my peasants,” they hiss actresses, to 
prove themselves men of taste; quarrel with the officers of the 
garrison, to prove themselves men of war ; shoot, smoke, yawn, 
drink, smell of tobacco, play at billiards; watch the travellers 
get out of the stage-coach; live at a tavern, dine at an inn; 
have a dog that gnaws bones under the table, and a mistress 
who chooses the dishes upon it; haggle over a sou, exaggerate 
the fashions, admire tragedy, despise women, wear out their 
old boots, copy London through Paris, and Paris through 
Pont-ad-Mousson ; grow stupid as they grow old, never work, 
are of no use, and do no great harm. Had Felix Tholomyés 
remained in his province and never seen Paris, he would have 
been one of them. If they were richer, people would say they 
are dandies; if poorer, they are good-for-nothings. They 
are simply men with nothing to do. Among these idlers there 
are bores and bored, dreamers, and a few scamps. 

At that day, a dandy was composed of a tall collar, a big 
cravat, a watch and seals, three waistcoats of different colours 
worn one over the other,— the blue and red inside,— a short- 
waisted olive-coloured coat, with a swallow-tail, and a double 
row of silver buttons, sewn on close together, ascending to 
the shoulders, and trousers of a lighter olive, adorned on the 
seams with an indeterminate but always uneven number of 


206 FANTINE 


stripes, varying from one to eleven,— a limit which was never 


exceeded. Add to this, high-cut shoes with iron on the heels, 
a tall, narrow-brimmed hat, hair in a tuft, an enormous cane, 
and conversation improved by Potier’s puns; over and above 
all these were spurs and a mustache, for at that period a mus- 
tache indicated the civilian, and spurs the pedestrian. The 
provincial dandy wore longer spurs and more ferocious mus- 
taches. It was the period of the struggle of the South Amer- 
ican Republics against the king of Spain, of Bolivar against 
Morillo. Narrow-brimmed hats were royalist, and called 
Morillos, while the liberals wore broad brims, which were 
called Bolivars. 

Eight or ten months after the events described in the pre- 
ceding pages, toward the beginning of January, 1823, on a 
night when snow had fallen, ‘one of these dandies — a man of 
“right sentiments,” for he wore a Morillo, and was also 
warmly wrapped in one of the large Spanish cloaks which at 
that time completed the fashionable costume in cold weather — 
was amusing himself by annoying a creature who was prowl- 
ing about in a Jow-necked ball-dress, with flowers in her hair, 
before the window of the officers’ club. This dandy was 
smoking, as that was a decided mark of fashion. Every time 
this woman passed him, he flung her, with a puff of his 
= cigar, some remark which he fancied witty and amusing, as: 

_ “ How ugly you are!—- Why don’t you hide your face? — 
You have no teeth,” etc. This gentleman’s name was Bama- 
tabois. The woman, a melancholy, decorated phantom walk- 
ing backward and forward in the snow, made him no an- 
swer, did not even look at him, but still continued her walk 
silently and with a gloomy regularity, which every few min- 
utes brought her under his sarcasms, like the condemned sol- 
dier running the gauntlet. The slight effect which he pro- 
duced doubtless annoyed the idler, for, taking advantage of a 
moment when her back was turned, he crept up behind her 
with stealthy tread, and smothering his laughter, stooped, 
picked up a handful of snow, and suddenly plunged it be- 
tween her bare shoulders. The girl uttered a yell, turned, 


eee ae ee - 


FANTINE 207 


leaped like a panther on the man, and dug her nails into 
his face with the most frightful language that could fall 
from a guard-room into the gutter. These insults, vomited 
forth by a voice rendered hoarse by brandy, hideously issued 
from a mouth in which the two front teeth were really missing. 
It was Fantine. 

At the noise, the officers left the club in a throng, the 
passers-by stopped, and a laughing, hooting, applauding 
eircle was formed round these two beings, in whom it was 
difficult to recognize a man and a woman,— the man strug- 
gling, his hat on the ground, the woman striking with feet 
and fists, bareheaded, shrieking, without teeth or hair, livid 
with passion, horrible. All at once a tall man quickly broke 
through the crowd, seized the woman by her satin bodice, 
which was covered with mud, and said: ‘% Follow me.” The 
woman raised her head, and her frantic voice suddenly died 
away. Her eyes were glassy, she grew pale instead of being 
livid, and trembled with fear,— she had recognized Javert. 
The dandy took advantage of this incident to make his es- 
cape. 





CHAPTER XIII 
THE POLICE OFFICE 


AVERT thrust aside the spectators, broke through the 
circle, and set off with long strides for the police office 

at the other end of the market-place, dragging the wretched 
girl after him. She allowed him to do so mechanically, and 
neither he nor she spoke. The crowd of spectators, in a 
paroxysm of delight, followed them with coarse jokes, for 
supreme misery is an occasion for obscenities. On reaching 
the police office, which was a low room, heated by a stove, 
guarded by a sentry, and having a grated glass door open- 
ing on the street, Javert walked in with Fantine, and shut 


&gt; 


208 FANTINE 


the door after him, to the great disappointment of the curi- 
ous, who stood on tiptoe, and stretched their necks in front 
of the dirty window trying to see. Curiosity is gluttony, and 
seeing is devouring. 

On entering, Fantine crouched down in a corner motion- 
less and mute like a frightened dog. ‘The sergeant on duty 
brought in a lighted candle on a table. Javert sat down, took 
a sheet of stamped paper from his pocket, and began to 
write. Women of this class are by the French laws left en- 
tirely to the discretion of the police. They do what they 
like with them, punish them as they think proper, and con- 
fiscate, if they please, the two sorry things which they call 
their trade and their liberty. Javert was impassive. His 
grave face displayed no emotion, and yet he was seriously 
and deeply preoccupied. It was one of those moments in 
which he exercised without control, but with all the scruples 
of a strict conscience, his formidable discretionary power. 
At this instant he felt that his high stool was a tribunal, and 
himself the judge. He tried and he condemned. He sum- 
moned up all the ideas he possessed concerning the great thing 
he was doing. ‘The more he considered the girl’s deed, the 
more outraged he felt; for it was evident that he had just 
seen a crime committed. He had seen in the street, society, 
represented by a householder and elector, insulted and at- 
tacked by a creature beyond the pale of everything. A pros- 
titute had assaulted a citizen, and he, Javert, had witnessed 
it. He wrote on silently. When he had finished, he affixed 
his signature, folded the paper, and said to the sergeant as 
he handed it to him: ‘Take three men and lead this girl to 
prison.” ‘Then he turned to Fantine, “ You will have six 
months for it.” 

The wretched girl shivered. 

“Six months,— six months’ imprisonment!” she cried. 
“Six months! and only earn seven sous a day! But what 
will become of Cosette, my child, my child! Why, I owe 
more than one hundred francs to Thénardier, Mr. Inspector ; 
do you know that? ” 


cm ee tee, 


FANTINE 209 


She dragged herself across the floor, tracked by the muddy 
boots of all those men, without rising, with clasped hands, 
and taking long strides with her knees. 

“Monsieur Javert,” she said, “I ask for mercy. I as- 
sure you that I was not in the wrong. If you had seen the 
beginning, you would say so. I swear by our Saviour that 
I was not to blame. That gentleman, who was a stranger 
to me, put snow down my back. Has any one a right to 
put snow down our backs when we are walking quietly like 
that, and doing nobody any harm? It sent me wild, for you 
must know I am not very well; and, besides, he had been 
abusing me,—*‘ you are ugly, you have no teeth.” I am well 
aware that I have lost my teeth. I did nothing, and said to 
myself, ‘ This gentleman is amusing himself.’ I was civil to 
him, and said nothing, and it was at this moment he put the 
snow down my back. M. Javert, is there no one here who 
saw it to tell you that this is the truth? Perhaps I was wrong 
to get into a passion, but at the moment, as you know, people 
are not masters of themselves; and I am quick-tempered. And 
then, something so cold put down your back, at a moment 
when you least expect it! It was wrong to destroy the gen- 
tleman’s hat, but why did he go away? I would ask his 
pardon. Oh! I would willingly do so. Let me off this time. 
M. Javert, perhaps you do not know that in prison I can only 
earn seven sous aday. It is not the fault of the governmem, 
but you only earn seven sous, and just fancy! [I have one 
hundred francs to pay, or my child will be turned into the 
street. Oh, I cannot have her with me, for what I do is so 
bad! Oh, my Cosette, oh, my little angel, whatever will 
become of you, poor darling! I must tell you that the Thé- 
nardiers are inn-keepers, peasants, and unreasonable. They 
insist on having their money. Oh, do not send me to prison. 
You see, the little thing will be turned into the streets in the 
middle of winter to go where she can, and you must take pity 
on her, my kind M. Javert. If she were older she could earn 
her living, but at her age it is impossible. I am not a bad 


woman at heart. It is not cowardice and gluttony that have 
14 


210 FANTINE 


made me what I am. If I drink brandy, it is through 
wretchedness. I do not like it, but it dulls my senses. In 
happier times you need only have looked into my chest of 
drawers, and you would kave seen that I was not a disorderly 
woman; for I had linen,— plenty of linen. Take pity on 
me, M. Javert.” 

She spoke thus, rent in twain, shaken by sobs, blinded 
by tears, her neck bare, wringing her hands, interrupted by 
a sharp, dry cough, and stammering softly, with death im- 
printed on her voice. Great sorrow is a divine and terrible 
ray which transfigures the wretched, and at this moment Fan- 
tine became lovely again. From time to time she stopped, and 
tenderly kissed the skirt of the policeman’s coat. She would 
have melted a heart of stone,— but a wooden heart cannot 
be melted. 

“ Well,” said Javert, ‘SI have listened to you. Have you 
said all? Be off now; you have six months. The Eternal 
Father m person could not alter it.” 

On hearing this solemn phrase, she understood that sen- 
tence was passed. She fell all of a heap, murmuring, 
“Mercy!” But Javert turned his back, and the soldiers 
seized her arm. Some minutes previously a man had entered 
unnoticed. He had closed the door, leaned against it, and 
heard Fantine’s desperate entreaties. When the soldiers laid 
hold of the unhappy girl, who would not rise, he emerged from 
the shadow, and said :— 

* Wait a minute, if you please.” 

Javert raised his eyes, and recognized M. Madeleine. He 
took off his hat, and bowed with a sort of vexed awkwardness. 

“YT beg your pardon, Mr. Mayor —” 

The words “ Mr. Mayor” produced a strange effect on 
Fantine. She sprang up with a bound, like a spectre emerg- 
ing from the ground, thrust back the soldiers, walked straight 
up to M. Madeleine before she could be prevented, and, look- 
ing at him wildly, she exclaimed :— 

*° So you are the mayor? ” 

Then she burst into a laugh, and spat in his face. 








FANTINE 211 


M. Madeleine wiped his face and said :— 

“ Inspector Javert, set this woman at liberty.” 

Javert felt for a moment as if he were going mad. He 
experienced at this instant the most violent emotions he had 
ever felt in his life, following each other in rapid succession, 
and almost simultaneously. To see a girl of the town spit 
in the mayor’s face was so monstrous a thing that in his 
wildest flights he would have regarded it as sacrilege even to 
believe it possible. On the other hand, in his innermost heart, 
he confusedly made a hideous approximation in his mind be- 
tween what this woman was and what this mayor might be; 
and then he saw with horror something perfectly simple in 
this terrible assault. But when he saw this mayor, this mag- 
istrate, calmly wipe his face, and say, “ Set this woman at 
liberty,” he felt dizzy with surprise. ‘Thought and language 
failed him equally, for he had passed the limits of possible 
amazement. He was dumb. ‘These words produced an 
equally strange effect on Fantine. She raised her bare arm 
and clung to the damper of the stove like a person who is 
falling. She looked around, and began in a low voice, as if 
speaking to herself :— 

“ At liberty! I am to be let go! I shall not be sent to 
prison for six months! Who said that? It is impossible 
that any one said it. I must have-heard wrong. It cannot 
be that monster of a mayor. Was it you, my kind M. 
Javert, who said that I was to be set at liberty? Well, I will 
tell you all about it, and you will let me go. That monster 
of a mayor, that old villain of a mayor, is the cause of it all. 
Just imagine, M. Javert, he discharged me on account of a 
parcel of sluts gossiping in the shop. Was not that horrible, 
— to discharge a poor girl who was doing her work fairly 
well! After that I did not earn enough, and all this misfor- 
tune came. In the first place, there is one improvement which 
the gentlemen of the police ought to make, and that is to 
prevent contractors for prison labour from injuring poor peo- 
ple. I will explain this to you. You earn twelve sous for 
making a shirt; it falls to nine, and then you can no longer 


212 FANTINE 


live, and are obliged to do what you can. As I had my little 
Cosette, I was forced to become a bad woman. You can now 
understand how it was that beggar of a mayor who did all the 
mischief. I trampled on the gentleman’s hat before the of- 
ficers’ club, but he had ruined my dress with snow; and our 
sort have only one silk dress for evening wear. Indeed, M. 
Javert, I never did any harm purposely, and I see everywhere 
much worse women than myself who are much more fortunate. 
Oh, Monsieur Javert, you said that I was to be set at liberty, 
did you not? Make inquiries, speak to my landlord. Now 
that I pay my rent they will tell you that I am honest. Oh, 
good gracious! I ask your pardon, but I have touched the 
damper of the stove without noticing it, and made it smoke.” 

M. Madeleine listened to her with deep attention. While 
she was talking, he fumbled in his waistcoat pocket, took out 
his purse and opened it. It was empty. He returned it to 
his pocket. He now said to Fantine: 7 

*¢ How much did you say that you owed? ” 

Fantine, who was looking at Javert, turned round to 
him :— 

‘“* Am I speaking to you? ” 

Then she said to the soldiers :— 

“Tell me, men, did you see how I spat in his face? Ah, 
you old villain of a mayor, you came here to frighten me; but 
I am not afraid of you. I am afraid of Monsieur Javert; I 
am afraid of my kind Monsieur Javert.” 

So saying, she turned again to the inspector: ‘* After all, 
Mr. Inspector, people should be just. I understand that you 
are a just man, M. Javert; in fact, it is quite simple. A 
man plays at putting snow down a woman’s back, and that 
made the officers laugh. ‘They must have some amusement, | 
and we girls are sent into the world for them to make fun 
of. And then you came up. You are compelled to restore 
order, you remove the woman who was in the wrong; but, on 
reflection, as you are kind-hearted, you order me to be set at 
liberty. It is for the sake of my little girl; for six months’ 
imprisonment would prevent my supporting her. But don’t 


FANTINE 213 


do it again, you jade! Oh, I won’t do it again, M. Javert. 
They can do what they like to me in future, and I will not 
stir; but I cried out to-night because it hurt me. I was not 
expecting that snow from that gentleman; and then, besides, 
as I told you, I am not well. I cough; I have something like 
a ball in my stomach, that burns, and the doctor says, ‘ Take 
care of yourself.’ Here, feel; give me your hand; do not be © 
frightened — right here.” 

She no longer cried; her voice was caressing. She laid 
Javert’s large, coarse hand on her white, delicate throat, and 
looked up at him smilingly. All at once she hurriedly re- 
paired the disorder in her clothes, dropped the folds of her 
dress, which, as she was dragged along, had been almost 
pushed up to her knee, and walked toward the door, saying 
to the soldiers with a friendly nod :— 

** My lads, M. Javert says I may go, so I will be off.” 

She laid her hand on the latch. One step more, and she 
would be in the street. Up to this moment Javert had stood 
motionless, with his eyes fixed on the ground, appearing in the 
centre of this scene like a statue waiting to be put in its proper 
place. The sound of the latch aroused him. He raised 
his head with an expression of sovereign authority,— an ex- 
pression the more frightful, the lower the man in power 
stands. It is ferocity in the wild beast, atrocity in a mere 
nobody. 

“ Sergeant,” he shouted, “do you not see that the wench 
is bolting? Who told you to let her go? ” 

**T did,”’ said M. Madeleine. 

Fantine, at the sound of Javert’s voice, trembled, and let 
go the latch, as a detected thief lets fall the stolen article. 
At M. Madeleine’s voice she turned, and from this moment, 
without uttering a word, without even daring to breathe 
freely, her eyes wandered from Madeleine to Javert, and from 
Javert to Madeleine, according as each spoke. It was evi- 
dent that Javert must have been “ lifted off the hinge,” as 
people say, when he ventured to address the sergeant as he 
had done, after the mayor’s request that Fantine should be 


214 FANTINE 


set at liberty. Had he gone so far as to forget the mayor’s 
presence? Did he finally declare to himself that it was im- 
possible for “ any authority ” to give such an order, and that 
‘the mayor must certainly have said one thing for another, 
without meaning it? Or was it that, in the presence of all 
the enormities he had witnessed during the last two hours, he 
said to himself that he must have recourse to a supreme reso- 
lution, that the little must become great, the detective be 
transformed into the magistrate, and that, in this prodigious 
extremity, order, law, morality, government, and society were 
personified in him, Javert? However this may be, when M. 
Madeleine said, ‘I did,’? the inspector of police turned to 
the mayor, pale, cold, with blue lips, with desperate glance, 
and an imperceptible tremor all over him, and — extraor- 
dinary circumstance! — he said, with downcast eyes, but in a 
fierce voice :— 

‘Mr. Mayor, that cannot be.” 

66 Why sor 39 

“This creature has insulted a gentleman.” 

‘Inspector Javert,” replied M. Madeleine, in a calm and 
conciliating tone, “ listen to me. You are an honest man, 
and I shall have no difficulty in coming to an explanation with 
you. The truth is as follows: I was crossing the market- 
place at the time you were leading this girl away, a crowd was 
still assembled; I inquired, and know all. The man was in 
the wrong, and, in common justice, ought to have been ar- 
rested in her place.” 

Javert objected :-— 

‘The wretched creature has just insulted you.” 

“That is my concern,” said M. Madeleine; “ my insult is 
my own, and I can do what I like with it.” 

“T ask your pardon, sir; the insult was not to you, but 
to justice.” 

“Inspector Javert,” replied M. Madeleine, * conscience is 
the highest of all courts. I have heard the woman and know 
what I am doing.” 

_ “And I, Mr. Mayor, do not know what I see.” 


FANTINE 215 


“In that case, be content with obeying.” 

“IT obey my duty. My duty orders that this woman should 
go to prison for six months.” 

M. Madeleine answered gently :-— 

“Hear what I say. She will not go for a single day.” 

On hearing these decided words, Javert ventured to look 
steadily at the mayor, and to say, though still in a respectful 
tone :— 

“J bitterly regret being compelled to resist you. Mr. 
Mayor, it is the first time in my life, but you will allow me 
to observe that I am within the limits of my authority. As 
you wish it, sir, I will confine myself to the affair with the 
gentleman. I was present. This girl attacked M. Bama- 
tabois, who is an elector and owner of that fine three-storied 
house, built of hewn stone, at the corner of the Esplanade. 
Well, there are things in this world. However this may be, 
Mr. Mayor, this is a matter for the street police and concerns 
me, and I intend to punish the woman Fantine.” 

M. Madeleine upon this folded his arms, and said in a 
stern voice, which no one in the town had ever heard before :— 

*“* The affair to which you allude belongs to the municipal 
police; and by the terms of articles nine, eleven, fifteen, and 
sixty-six of the Criminal Code, I am the proper judge of it. 
I order this woman to be set at liberty.” 

Javert made a final effort. 

** But, Mr. Mayor —” 

“TI call your attention to article eighty-one of the law of 
December 13, 1799, upon arbitrary detention.” 

** Permit me, sir —’” 

** Not a word!” 

66 But ee) 

** Leave the room! ” said M. Madeleine. 

Javert received the blow erect, full in the face, in his 
breast, like a Russian soldier. He bowed down to the ground 
before the mayor, and went out. Fantine stood aside from 
the door, and watched him pass by her in amazement. . She, 
too, was suffering from a strange perturbation, for she had 


216 FANTINE 


seen herself, so to speak, contended for by two opposite powers. 
She had seen two men struggling in her presence, who held in 
their hands her liberty, her life, her soul, her child. One of 
these men dragged her toward the gloom, the other restored 
her to the light. In this struggle, which she gazed at through 
the exaggeration of terror, the two men seemed to her giants, 
—one spoke like a demon, the other like her good angel. 
The angel had vanquished the demon, and the thing which 
made her shudder from head to foot was that this angel, this 
liberator, was the very man whom she abhorred,— the mayor 
whom she had so long regarded as the cause of all her woes; 
at the very moment when she had insulted him in such a 
hideous way, he saved her. Could she be mistaken? Must 
she change her whole soul? She did not know, but she trem- 
bled. She listened wildly; she looked on with terror, and at 
every word that M. Madeleine uttered, she felt the darkness 
of hate melt and crumble in her heart, and something glowing 
and ineffable spring up in its place, which was composed of 
joy, confidence, and love. When Javert had left the room, M. 
Madeleine turned to her, and said slowly, like a serious man 
who is making an effort to restrain his tears :— 

‘I have heard your story. I knew nothing about what 
you have said, but I believe, I feel, that it is true. I was even 
ignorant that you had left my factory. Why did you not 
apply to me? But here, I will pay your debts and send for 
your child, or you can go to her. You can live here, in Paris, 
or wherever you please, and I will provide for your child and 
yourself. You shall not work any longer unless you choose. 
I will give you all the money you require, and you will become 
respectable again when you are happy. And, listen, I tell 
you now, if all be as you say, and I do not doubt it, you have 
never ceased to be virtuous and holy in the sight of God! 
Poor woman!” 

This was more than poor Fantine could endure. To have 
her Cosette! ‘To leave this infamous life! T'o live free, rich, 
happy, and respectable with Cosette! To see all these reali- 
ties of paradise suddenly burst into flower, in the midst of 


FANTINE 217 


her wretchedness! She looked as if stunned, at this man 
who spoke to her, and could only sob two or three times, 
“Oh, oh, oh!” Her legs gave way; she fell on her knees 
before M. Madeleine, and, before he could prevent it, he felt 
her seize his hand and press her lips to it. 

Then she fainted. 


BOOK VI 
JAVERT 





CHAPTER I 
THE BEGINNING OF REST 


MADELEINE had Fantine conveyed to the infirmary 
.» which he had established in his own house, and in- 
trusted her to the sisters, who put her to bed. A violent 
fever had broken out; she spent a part of the night in ray- 
ing and talking aloud, but at length fell asleep. On the 
morrow, about midday, Fantine awoke, and, hearing some 
one breathing close to her bed, she drew the curtain aside, and 
saw M. Madeleine gazing at something above her head. His 
glance was full of pity, agony, and supplication; she fol- 
' lowed its direction and saw that it was fixed on a crucifix nailed 
to the wall. M. Madeleine was henceforth transfigured in 
Fantine’s eyes, and seemed to her surrounded by light. He 
was absorbed in a sort of prayer, and she looked at him for 
some time without daring to interrupt him, but at length she 
said, timidly :— 

*¢ What are you doing there? ” 

M. Madeleine had been standing on this spot for an hour, 
waiting till Fantine should wake. He took her hand, felt her 
pulse, and answered :— | 

** How are you? ” a 

** Very comfortable. I have slept; I think I am better. It 
will be nothing.” 

218 


FANTINE 219 


He continued, answering the question she had first asked 
him, and as if he had only just heard it :-— 

‘I was praying to the martyr up there; ” and he mentally 
added, ‘* for the martyr down here.” 

M. Madeleine had spent the night and the morning 
in making inquiries, and had learned everything; he knew 
all the poignant details of Fantine’s history. He contin- 
ued :-— 

** You have suffered deeply, poor mother. Oh! do not com- 
plain, for you have now the dowry of the elect; it is in this 
way that human beings become angels. It is not their fault; 
they do not know how to manage otherwise. The hell you 
have now left is the anteroom to heaven, and you were obliged 
to begin with that.” He heaved a deep sigh, but she smiled 
upon him with the sublime smile in which two teeth were 
wanting. 

Javert had written a letter during the past night, and 
posted it himself the next morning. It was for Paris, and 
the address was: ‘*‘ Monsieur Chabouillet, secretary to the 
chief of police.’ As a rumour had been spread abroad about 
the affair in the police office, the post-mistress, and some other 
persons who saw the letter before it was sent off, and recog- 
nized Javert’s handwriting, supposed that he was sending 
in his resignation. M. Madeleine hastened to write to the 
Thénardiers. Fantine owed them over one hundred and 
twenty francs, and he sent them three hundred, bidding them 
pay themselves out of the amount, and bring the child at 
once to M » where a sick mother awaited it. This daz- 
zled Thénardier. ‘ Hang it all,” he said to his wife, * we 
must not let the brat go, for the lark will become a milch cow 
for us. I see it all; some fool has fallen in love with the 
mother. He replied by sending a bill for five hundred and 
odd francs very well drawn up. In this bill two genuine ac- 
counts figured,— one from a physician, the other from an 
apothecary, who had attended Eponine and Azelma in a long 
illness. Cosette, as we said, had not been ill, and hence it 
was merely a trifling change of names. At the bottom of the 





220 FANTINE 


bill Thénardier gave credit for three hundred francs received 
on account. M. Madeleine at once sent three hundred francs 
more, and wrote, “‘ Make haste and bring Cosette.” 

“ Christi!?? said Thénardier, “we must not let the 
child go.” 

In the mean while Fantine did not recover, and still re- 
mained in the infirmary. ‘The sisters had at first received and 
nursed “ that girl” with some repugnance. Any one who 
has seen the bas-relief at Rheims will remember the pouting 
lower lip of the wise virgins looking at the foolish virgins. 
This ancient contempt of Vestals for Ambubaiz is one of the 
deepest instincts of feminine dignity; and the sisters felt it, 
with the increased dislike which religion adds. But in a few 
days Fantine disarmed them; she had all sorts of humble and 
gentle words, and the mother within her moved them to ten- 
derness. One day the sisters heard her say in the paroxysm 
of fever, “ I have been a sinner ; but when I have my child by 
my side, that will show that God has forgiven me. While I 
was leading a bad life, I should not have liked to have Cosette 
with me, for I could not have endured her sad, astonished eyes ; 
and yet it was for her sake that I did wrong, and so God 
pardons me. I shall feel the blessing of Heaven when Cosette 
is here; I shall look at her, and it will do me good to see the 
innocent creature. She knows nothing at all. She is an 
angel, you see, sisters. At her age the wings have not yet 
dropped off.” 

M. Madeleine went to see her twice a day, and every time 
she asked him, “ Shall I see my Cosette soon? ” 

He would answer :— 

‘To-morrow, perhaps; she may come at any moment. I 
am expecting her.” 

And the mother’s pale face would grow radiant. 

“© Qh!” she said, “ how happy I shall be! ” 

We have said that she did not improve; on the contrary, 
her condition seemed to grow worse week by week. The 
handful of snow placed between her naked shoulder-blades 
produced a sudden cheek of perspiration, which caused the 


FANTINE 221 


illness that had smouldered in her for years to break out sud- 
denly. Laénnec’s fine method of studying and treating dis- 
ease of the lungs was just beginning to be employed; the 
physician placed the stethoscope to Fantine’s chest, and shook 
his head. M. Madeleine said to him :-— 

“Well? ” 

‘Has she not a child that she wishes to see? ” asked the 
doctor. 

66 Yes.’ 

*¢ Well, make haste and send for her.” 

Madeleine shuddered, and Fantine asked :—_ 

*¢ What did the doctor say? ” 

Madeleine forced a smile. 

*“* He said that your child must come at once, for that 
would cure you.” 

** Oh,” she replied, “ he is right; what do those Thénar- 
diers mean by keeping my Cosette? Oh, she will come and 
then I shall see happiness close to me.” 

Thénardier, however, would not let the child go, and al- 
leged a hundred poor excuses,— Cosette was ailing, and it 
would be dangerous for her to travel in winter, and then 
there were some small debts still to pay, which he was col- 
lecting, etc. 

“¢ I will send some one to fetch Cosette,” said Father Made- 
leine; “if necessary, I will go myself.” 

He wrote at Fantine’s dictation the following letter, which 
she signed :-— 


M. THENARDIER: — 
You will hand over Cosette to the bearer, who will pay up all 
little matters. 
Yours, 
FANTINE, 


About this time, a serious incident occurred. However 
cleverly we may carve the mysterious block of which our life 
is made, the black vein of destiny ever re-appears in it. 


222 FANTINE 


CHAPTER II 
How “ JEAN”? MAY BECOME ‘“‘ CHAMP ” 


NE morning M. Madeleine was in his study, engaged in 
O settling some pressing official matters, in case he de- 
cided on the journey to Montfermeil, when he was told that 
Inspector Javert wished to speak with him. On hearing this 
name, Madeleine could not refrain from a disagreeable im- 
pression. Since the adventure of the police station, Javert 
had avoided him more than ever, and Madeleine had not seen 
him again. 

‘¢ Show him in,” he said. 

Javert entered. Madeleine remained seated at his table 
near the fireplace, pen in hand, his eyes fixed on a bundle of 
papers, which he was turning over and annotating. He did 
not disturb himself for Javert, for he could not refrain from 
thinking of poor Fantine, and chose to be freezing in his re- 
ception. Javert bowed respectfully to the mayor, who had 
his back turned to him; the mayor did not look at him, but 
continued to make his notes. Javert walked a little way into 
the study, and then halted without a word. A physiognomist 
familiar with Javert’s nature, and who had studied for any 
length of time this savage in the service of civilization,— this 
strange composite of the Roman, the Spartan, the monk, and 
the corporal, this spy incapable of falsehood, this spotless de- 
tective,— a physiognomist aware of his secret and ancient 
aversion for Madeleine and his conflict with him about Fan- 
tine, and who saw Javert at this moment, would have asked 
himself, What has happened? It was evident to any one 
who knew his upright, clear, sincere, honest, austere, and fero- 
cious conscience, that Javert had just emerged from some 
great internal struggle. Javert had nothing in his mind 
which he did not also have in his face, and, like all violent 
men, he was subject to sudden change. Never had his face 


FANTINE 223 


been more peculiar or more surprising. On entering, he 
bowed to M. Madeleine with a look in which there was neither 
rancour, anger, nor suspicion; he halted a few yards behind 
the mayor’s chair, and now stood there in an almost military 
attitude, with the simple cold hardness of a man who has 
never been gentle and .has ever been patient. He waited, 
without a word, without a movement, in true humility and 
tranquil resignation, eyes downcast, till the mayor might think 
proper to turn round,— hat in hand, calm, serious, and with 
an expression half-way between that of a private before his 
officer and that of a culprit before his judge. All the feel- 
ings as well as all the memories he might be supposed to 
possess had disappeared ; there was nothing but a gloomy sad- 
ness on his face, which was impenetrable and simple as granite. 
His whole person displayed humiliation and firmness, and a 
sort of courageous despondency. At length the mayor laid 
down his pen and half turned. 

“Well, what is it? What is the matter, Javert? ” 

Javert was silent for a moment, as if reflecting, and then 
raised his voice with a sad solemnity, which, however, did not 
exclude simplicity. 

‘* A culpable deed has been committed, sir.” 

*“* ‘What deed? ” 

** An inferior agent of authority has failed in respect to a 
magistrate, and in the gravest manner. I have come, as is 
my duty, to bring the fact to your knowledge.” 

** Who is this agent? ”? asked M. Madeleine. 

“ Myself.” 

** And who is the magistrate who has cause to complain of 
the agent? ” 

‘You, Mr. Mayor.” 

M. Madeleine sat up in his chair, and Javert continued, 
with a stern air and still looking down :— 

“Mr. Mayor, I have come to ask you to procure my dis- 
missal from the service.” 

Madeleine in his stupefaction opened his lips, but Javert in- 
terrupted him :— 


224 FANTINE 


“You may say that I could have sent in my resignation, 
but that is not enough. Such a course is honourable; but I 
have done wrong, and deserve punishment. I must be dis- 
missed.” 

And after a pause he added :— 

“Mr. Mayor, you were unjustly severe to me the other day, 
be so to-day justly.” 

‘What is the meaning of all this nonsense?” exclaimed 
M. Madeleine. ‘‘ What is the culpable act you have com- 
mitted? What have you done to me? You accuse your- 
self ; you wish to be removed —” 

‘© Dismissed,” said Javert. 

“Very good, dismissed. I do not understand.” 

“You shall do so, sir.” 

Javert heaved a deep sigh and continued, still coldly and 
sadly :-— 

“Six weeks ago, Mr. Mayor, after the scene about that girl, 
I was furious, and denounced you.” 

** Denounced me? ” 

“To the chief of police at Paris.” 

M. Madeleine, who did not laugh much oftener than Javert, 
burst into a laugh. 

** As a mayor who had encroached on the province of the 
police? ” 

** As an ex-galley-slave.” 

The mayor turned livid, but Javert, who had not raised 
his eyes, continued :— 

“J thought it was so, and have had these notions for a 
long time. A resemblance, information which you sought at 
Faverolles, the strength of your loins, the adventure with old 
Fauchelevent, your skill with fire-arms, your leg which halts a 
little,— and soon. It was very absurd, but I took you for a 
man of the name of Jean Valjean.” 

“What name did you say? ” 

“ Jean Valjean; he is a convict I saw twenty years ago 
when I was assistant keeper at the galleys of Toulon. On 
leaving the galleys, this Valjean, as it appears, robbed a 


FANTINE 225 


bishop, and then committed highway robbery on a little Sa- 
voyard. For eight years he has been out of the way and 
could not be found, and I imagined — In a word, I did as 
I said. Passion decided me, and I denounced you to the 
chief.” 

M. Madeleine, who had taken up his papers again, said in 
a careless tone :— 

‘“¢ And what was the answer you received? ” 

‘That I was mad!” 

Well? ” 

“They were right.” 

‘It is fortunate that you admit it.” 

** I must do so, for the real Jean Valjean has. been found.” 

The papers M. Madeleine was holding fell from his grasp; 
he raised his head, looked searchingly at Javert, and said 
with an indescribable accent :— 

66 Oh 1 99 

Javert continued :— 

‘“‘ This is how it is, Mr. Mayor. It seems that there was, 
over at Ailly le Hant Clocher, an old fellow called Father 
Champmathieu. He was very wretched, and no attention was 
paid to him, for no one knows how such people live. This 
autumn Father Champmathieu was arrested for stealing cider 
apples from — well, no matter whom; there was a robbery, 
a wall climbed over, and branches broken. This Champ- 
mathieu was arrested with the branch still in his hand, and 
was locked up. Up to this point it is only a matter for a 
police court; but here Providence interposes. As the lock-up 
was under repair, the magistrates ordered that Champmathieu 
should be taken to the departmental prison at Arras. In this 
prison there is an ex-convict of the name of Brevet, under 
imprisonment for some offence, and he has been made under- 
turnkey for his good behaviour. Champmathieu no sooner 
arrived than Brevet cries out, ‘ Why, I know this man; he 
is an ex-convict. Look at me, old fellow; you are Jean Val- 
jean.’ ‘Jean Valjean! What do you mean?’ says Champ- 
enol, affecting surprise. ‘Don’t play the “ flat” with 


226 FANTINE 


me,’ says Brevet; ‘ you are Jean Valjean. You were at the 
Toulon galleys twenty years ago, and I was there too.’ 
Champmathieu denied identity; and, as you may suppose, 
the affair was thoroughly investigated, with the following re- 
sult. ‘This Champmathieu about thirty years ago was a 
‘pruner of trees at several places, especially at Faverolles, 
where his trail is lost. A long time after he is found again 
in Auvergne, and then in Paris, where he says he was a 
wheelwright, and had a daughter a washerwoman,— though 
there is no evidence of this; and lastly he turned up in these 
parts. Now, before being sent to the galleys, what was 
Jean Valjean? A pruner; where? At Faverolles. And 
here is another fact: this Valjean’s Christian name was Jean, 
and his mother’s family name Mathieu. What is more nat- 
ural to suppose than that on leaving the galleys he assumed 
his mother’s name as a disguise, and called himself Jean 
Mathieu? He went to Auvergne, where Jean is pronounced 
Chan, and thus he was transformed into Champmathieu. 
You follow me, I suppose? Inquiries have been made at 
Faverolles, but Jean Valjean’s family is no longer there, and 
no one knows where they have gone. As you are aware, in 
those places families frequently disappear; these people, if 
they are not mud, are dust. And then, again, as the begin- 
ning of this story dates back thirty years, there is no one left 
in Faverolles who knew Jean Valjean; and besides Brevet, 
there are only two convicts who remember him,— two prison- 
ers for life. These two were brought from the galleys and 
confronted with the pretended Champmathieu, and they did 
not hesitate for a moment. The same age,— fifty-four; the 
same height, the same look, the same man, in short. It was 
at this very moment that I sent my denunciation to Paris, and 
the answer I received was that I had lost my senses, for Jean 
Valjean was in the hands of justice at Arras. You can con- 
ceive that this surprised me, as I fancied that I had that 
same Jean Valjean here. I wrote to the magistrates, who 
sent for me, and Champmathieu was brought in.” 
“ Well? ” interrupted M. Madeleine. 


FANTINE 227 


Javert answered with his incorruptible and sad face. 

“Mr. Mayor, truth is truth. I am sorry, but that man 
is Jean Valjean; I recognized him too.” 

M. Madeleine said in a very low voice: — 

** Are you sure? ” 

Javert burst into that melancholy laugh which comes from 
profound conviction: — 

** Oh, certain.” 

He stood for a moment pensive, mechanically taking 
pinches of blotting-sand out of the sprinkler on the table, 
and added: — 

‘* And now that I have seen the real Jean Valjean, I can- 
not understand how I could have believed anything else. I 
ask your pardon, Mr. Mayor.” 

As he addressed these supplicating words to the person who 
six weeks previously had humiliated him so deeply and bidden 
him leave the room, the haughty man was unconsciously full 
of dignity and simplicity. M. Madeleine merely answered 
his entreaty by the hurried question : — 

‘* And what does this man say? ” 

“ Well, Mr. Mayor, it is an ugly business, for if he is Jean 
Valjean, he is an escaped convict. Scaling a wall, breaking 
a branch, and stealing apples is a peccadillo in a child, an 
offence in a man, but a crime in a convict. ‘That is robbing 
and entering. It is no longer a matter for the police courts, 
but for the assizes; it is no longer imprisonment for a few 
days, but the galleys for life. And there is the matter with 
the little Savoyard, which I trust, will be brought up again. 
The devil! ‘There is enough to settle a man, is there not? 
Yes, for any one but Jean Valjean. But Jean Valjean is 
artful; and that’s where I recognized him too. Any other 
man would feel that things were getting hot; he would 
struggle, cry out, refuse to be Jean Valjean, and so on. He 
pretends, though, not to understand, and says, ‘ I am Champ- 
mathieu, and I shall stick to it.” He looks amazed, and plays 
stupid, which is far better. Oh, he is a clever scoundrel! 
But no matter, the proofs are ready to hand; he has been 


228 FANTINE 


recognized by four persons, and the old scamp will be found 
guilty. He is to be tried at Arras assizes, and I have been 
summoned as a witness.” 

M. Madeleine had turned to his desk again, taken up his 
papers, and was quietly turning over the leaves, busily read- 
ing and writing by turns. He now said to the inspector: — 

“Enough, Javert; after all, these details interest me but 
very slightly. We are losing our time, and have a deal of 
work before us. Javert, you will go at once to Mother 
Buseaupied, who sells vegetables at the corner of the Rue 
Saint Saulve, and tell her to take out a summons against Pierre 
Chesnelong the carter ; he is a brutal fellow, who almost drove 
over this woman and her child, and he must be punished. 
You will then go to M. Charcellay in the Rue Champigny ; he 
complains that there is a gutter next door which leaks, and 
is sapping the foundation of his house. After that, you 
will verify the breaches of police regulations reported to me 
in the Rue Ginborg, at Widow Doris’s house, and at Madame 
Renée le Bosse’s place in the Rue Garrand Blanc; and you 
may make out the papers. But I am giving you a deal to 
do, and I think you said you were going away. Did you 
not say you were going to Arras on this matter in a week or 
ten days? ” 

** Sooner than that, sir.”’ 

*©On what day, then? ” 

“I fancied I told you that the trial comes off to-morrow, 
and that I should start by to-night’s coach.” M. Made- 
leine started slightly. 

** And how long will the trial last? ” 

““A day at the most, and sentence will be passed to-mor- 
row night at the latest. But I shall not wait for the sentence, 
which is certain, but return as soon as I have given my evi- 
dence.”’ 

** Very good,” said M. Madeleine, and he dismissed Javert 
with a wave of his hand; but Javert did not go. 

“IT beg your pardon, Mr. Mayor,” said he. 

*““ What’s the matter now?” asked M. Madeleine. 


FANTINE 229 


‘IT have one thing to remind you of sir.” 

“¢ What is it?” 

“That I must be discharged.” 

M. Madeleine rose. 

** Javert, you are a man of honour, and I esteem you; you 
exaggerate your fault; and besides, this also is an offence 
which concerns me only. You deserve to rise, not to be de- 
graded; and I insist on your keeping your situation.” 

Javert looked at M. Madeleine with his clear eyes, in whose 
depths his unenlightened but pure and rigid conscience seemed 
visible, and said quietly : — 

“Mr. Mayor, I cannot agree to that.” 

“IT repeat,” replied M. Madeleine, “ that the affair con- 
cerns myself alone.” 

But Javert, attending to his own thoughts only, contin- 
ued : — 

“ As for exaggerating, I am not doing so; for this is how 
I reason. I suspected you unjustly. That is nothing; it is 
the duty of men like myself to suspect, though there is an 
abuse in suspecting those above us. But without proofs, in 
a moment of passion, and for the purpose of revenge, I 
denounced you, a respectable man, a mayor and a magistrate. 
This is serious, very serious; I, an agent of the authorities, 
insulted that authority im your person. Had any of my 
subordinates done what I have done, I should have declared 
him unworthy of his position, and discharged him. Stay, 
Mr. Mayor, one word more: I have often been severe in my 
life to others, for it was just, and I was doing my duty; and 
if I were not severe to myself now, all the justice I have 
done would become injustice. Ought I to spare myself more 
than others? No. What! am I only fit to punish others and 
not myself? Why, I should be a scoundrel, and the people 
who call me ‘ that rogue of a Javert’ would be in the right! 
Mr. Mayor, I do not wish you to treat me kindly, for your 
kindness causes me sufficient ill-blood when dealt to others, 
and I want none for myself. The kindness that decides in 
favour of a street-walker against a gentleman, of a police 


230 FANTINE 


agent against the mayor, of the lower classes against the 
higher, is what I call mistaken kindness; and it is such kind- 
ness that disorganizes society. Good Lord! it is easy enough 
to be kind, but the difficulty is to be just. Come! if you had 
been what I believed you, I should not have been kind to you, 
as you would have seen. Mr. Mayor, I am bound to treat 
myself as I would treat another man; when I repressed male- 
factors, when I was severe with scamps, I often said to myself, 
‘If you ever catch yourself tripping, look out!’ I have 
tripped, I have committed a fault, and so much the worse 
for me. I have strong arms and will turn Jabourer,— it’s all 
one to me. Mr. Mayor, the good of the service requires an 
example. I simply demand the discharge of Inspector 
Javert.” 

All this was spoken in an humble, proud, despairing, and 
convinced tone, which lent peculiar grandeur to this strangely 
honest man. 

‘We will see,”? said M. Madeleine, and he offered him his 
hand; but Javert fell back, and said sternly : — 

‘Pardon me, sir, but that must not be; a mayor should 
not give his hand to a spy.” He added between his teeth: 
“Yes, a spy; from the moment that I misused my authority, 
I became only a spy.” 

Then he bowed low, and walked to the door. When he 
reached it he turned and said, with eyes still bent on the 
ground: — 

** Mr. Mayor, I will continue on duty till my place is filled.” 

He went out. M. Madeleine thoughtfully listened to his 
firm, sure step as he walked along the paved passage. 


BOOK VII 
THE CHAMPMATHIEU AFFAIR 


CHAPTER I 
SISTER SIMPLICITY 


HE incidents we are about to record were only partially 
known at M , but the few which were known, left 

such a memory in that town that it would be a serious gap in 
this book if we did not repeat them in their smallest details. 
In these details the reader will notice two or three improbable 
circumstances, which we retain through respect for truth. 
On the afternoon following Javert’s visit, M. Madeleine went 
to see Fantine as usual; but before going to her, he asked for 
Sister Simplicity. The two nuns who managed the infirm- 
ary, who were Lazarists, like all sisters of charity, were known 
by the names of Sisters Perpetua and Simplicity. Sister 
Perpetua was an ordinary village girl, a clumsy sister of 
charity, who had entered the service of Heaven just as she 
would have taken a cook’s place. This type is not rare, for 
the monastic orders gladly accept this rude peasant clay, 
which can be easily moulded into a Capuchin friar or an 
Ursuline nun; and these rustics are employed in the heavy 
work of devotion. The transition from a drover to a Car- 
melite is no hard task. The common substratum of village and 
cloister ignorance is a ready-made preparation, and at once 
places the countryman on a level with the monk. Widen the 
blouse a little and you have a gown. Sister Perpetua was a 


231 





232 FANTINE 


healthy, hearty nun belonging to Marines, near Pontoise, who 
talked with a country twang, sang psalms, scolded, sugared 
the potion according to the bigotry or hypocrisy of the pa- 
tient, was rough with the sick, and harsh with the dying, al- 
most throwing God in their faces, and stoning their last mo- 
ments with angry prayer. Withal she was bold, honest, and 
‘red-faced. 

Sister Simplicity was pale, and looked like a wax taper by 
the side of Sister Perpetua, who was a tallow candle in com- 
parison. Vincent de Paul has divinely described the sister 
of charity in these admirable words which combine so much 
liberty and slavery: ‘* She will have no other convent but 
the hospital, no other cell but a hired room, no chapel but 
the parish church, no cloister beyond the streets or the hospital 
wards, no walls but obedience, no grating but the fear of 
God, and no veil but modesty.” Sister Simplicity was the 
living ideal of this picture. No one could have told her age, 
for she had never been young and seemed as if she would 
never grow old. She was a gentle, austere, well-bred, cold 
person,— we dare not say a woman,— who had never told a 
falsehood. She was so gentle that she appeared fragile, but 
she was more solid than granite. She touched the wretched 
with delightfully delicate and pure fingers. There was, so 
to speak, silence in her speech. She only said what was 
ncessary, and possessed an intonation of voice which would 
have at once have edified a confessional and charmed a draw- 
ing-room. ‘This delicacy harmonized with the rough gown, 
finding in this harsh contact a continual reminder of heaven. 
Let us dwell on one detail,— never to have told a falsehood, 
never to have said, for any advantage, or even indifferently, 
a thing which was not the truth, the holy truth, was the 
characteristic feature of Sister Simplicity. It was the spe- 
cial mark of her virtue. She was almost celebrated in the 
congregation for this imperturbable veracity; and the Abbé 
Suard alludes to Sister Simplicity in a letter to the deaf- 
mute Massieu. However sincere and pure we may be, we 
have all the brand of some little white lie on our candour; but 


FANTINE 233 


she had not. Can there be such a thing as a white lie, an 
innocent lie? Lying is absolute evil. To lie a little is not 
possible. The man who lies tells the whole lie. Lying is the 
face of the fiend; and Satan has two names,— Satan and the 
Father of Lies. That is what she thought, and she practised 
as she thought. ‘The result was the whiteness to which we 
have alluded, a whiteness which even covered with its radiance 
her lips and eyes; for her smile was white, her glance was 
white. There was not a spider’s web nor a grain of dust on 
the window of her conscience. On entering the order of St. 
Vincent de Paul she took the name of Simplicity from special 
choice. Simplicity of Sicily, our readers will remember, is 
the saint who sooner let her two breasts be torn off than say 
she was a native of Segesta, when she was born at Syracuse, 
though the falsehood would have saved her. Such a patron 
saint suited this soul. 

Simplicity, on entering the order, had two faults, of which 
she gradually corrected herself,— she had a taste for dainties 
and was fond of receiving letters. Now, she never read any- 
thing but a prayer-book in large type and in Latin. Though 
she did not understand the language, she understood the 
book. This pious woman felt an affection for Fantine, as 
she probably noticed the latent virtue in her, and devoted her- 
self almost wholly to nursing her. M. Madeleine took Sister 
Simplicity aside and recommended Fantine to her with a sin- 
gular accent, which the sister remembered afterward. On 
leaving the sister he went to Fantine. The patient daily 
awaited the appearance of M. Madeleine, as if he brought 
her warmth and light. She said to the sisters, ‘I only live 
when the mayor is here.” This day she was very feverish, 
and so soon as she saw M. Madeleine she asked him,— 

*“* Where is Cosette? ” 

He replied with a smile, “ she will be here soon.” 

M. Madeleine was just as usual, except that he remained 
with her an hour instead of a half an hour, to her great de- 
light. He begged everybody over and over not to allow the 
patient to want for anything; and it was noticed at one 


234 FANTINE 


moment that his face became very dark, but this was explained 
when it was learned that the physician had bent down to his 
ear and said, ** She is sinking rapidly.” Then he returned 
to:his office, and the clerk saw him attentively examine a 
road-map of France, which hung in his room, after which he 
wrote a few figures in pencil on a piece of paper. 





CHAPTER II 
MASTER SCAUFFLAIRE’S PERSPICACITY 


ROM his office, M. Madeleine proceeded to the end of the 
town, to a Fleming called Master Scaufflaer, gallicized 
into Scaufflaire, who let out horses and gigs by the day. ‘The 
nearest way to his yard lay through an unfrequented street, 
in which stood the house of the parish priest. The priest 
was said to be a worthy and respectable man, who gave good 
advice. When M. Madeleine came in front of his house, 
there was only one person in the street, and he noticed the 
following circumstances: The mayor, after passing the 
house, stopped a moment, then turned back and walked up to 
the priest’s door, which had an iron knocker. He quickly 
seized the knocker and lifted it. ‘Then he stopped again, as 
if in deep thought, and after a few seconds, instead of knock- 
ing, he softly let the knocker fall back into its place and went 
on with a sort of haste which he had not previously displayed. 
M. Madeleine found Master Scaufflaire at home and engaged 
in mending a set of harness. 
*“* Master Scaufflaire,” he asked, “‘ have you a good horse? ” 
“Mr. Mayor,” replied the Fleming, “ all my horses are 
good. What do you mean by a good horse? ” 
“I mean a horse that can cover twenty leagues of ground 
in a day.” 
“The devil!” said the Fleming: “ twenty leagues? ” 


FANTINE 235 


66 Yes.” 

** Harnessed in a gig?” 

66 Yes.”? 

‘‘ And how long will he rest after the journey? ” 

“He must be in condition to start again the next morn- 
ing if necessary.” 

“To go the same distance back? ” 

66 Yes.” 

** Hang it all! and it is twenty leagues? ” 

M. Madeleine took from his pocket the paper on which 
he had pencilled some figures. They were 5, 6, 81. 

“You see,’ he said, “* total, nineteen and a half, or call 
them twenty leagues.” 

‘*Mr. Mayor,” continued the Fleming, “I can suit you. 
My little white horse,— you may have seen him pass,— is 
an animal from Lower Boulonnais, and full of fire. They 
tried at first to make a saddle-horse of him; but he reared and 
kicked, and threw everybody that got on his back. He was 
supposed to be vicious, and no one knew what to do with him. 
I bought him, and put him in a gig. That was just 
what he wanted. He is as gentle as a maid and goes like 
the wind. 

** But you must not try to get on his back, for he has no 
notion of being a saddle-horse. Everybody has his ambi- 
tion, and it appears as if the horse had said to himself, 
‘Draw, yes; carry, no.’ ” 

“And he will go the distance? ” 

“ At a trot, and under eight hours, but on certain condi- 
tions.” 

“¢ What are they? ” 

“In the first place, you will let him breathe for an hour 
half-way. He will feed, and you must be present while he 
does so, to prevent the hostler stealing the oats; for I have 
noticed that at inns oats are more frequently drunk by the 
stable-boys than eaten by the horses.” 

** I will be there.” 

“In the next place, is the gig for yourself, sir? ” 


236 FANTINE 


66 Yes.” 

“Do you know how to drive? ” 

66 Yes.”’ 

“Well, you must travel alone and without luggage, in 
order not to overweight the horse.” 

“¢ A greed.” 

“ But if you are alone, you will have to look out yourself 
that the oats are not stolen.” 

** Of course.” 

“ T shall expect thirty francs a day, and the days of rest 
paid for as well. Not a farthing less; and you will pay for 
the horse’s keep.” 

M. Madeleine took three napoleons from his purse and laid 
them on the table: — 

‘‘'There are two days in advance.” 

“In the fourth place, a cabriolet would be too heavy for 
such a journey and would tire the horse. You must oblige me 
by travelling in a little tilbury I have.” 

** I consent.” 

“It is light, but it 1s open.” 

“I do not care.” 

“Have you thought, sir, that it is now winter? ” 

M. Madeleine made no answer, and the Fleming contin- 
ued : — 

*¢ That it is very cold? ” 

M. Madeleine was still silent. 

‘That it may rair®? ” 

The mayor raised his head and said: — 

“The tilbury and the horse will be before my door at 
half-past four to-morrow morning.” 

“Very good, sir,” answered Scaufilaire. Then, scratching 
with his thumb-nail a stain in the wood of his table, he con- 
tinued, with that careless air with which the Flemings so 
cleverly conceal their craft: — 

“Good gracious, I did not think to ask where you are go- 
ing. Be kind enough to tell me, sir.” 

He had thought of nothing else since the beginning of the 


FANTINE 237 


conversation, but somehow he had not dared to ask the ques- 
tion. 

‘“‘ Has your horse good legs? ” said M. Madeleine. 

“Yes, Mr. Mayor. You will have to hold him up a little 
in going down-hill. Are there many hills between here and 
the place where you are going? ” 

*‘ Do not forget to be at my door at half-past four exactly,” 
M. Madeleine answered, and went away. 

The Fleming stood “ like a fool,” as he himself said, a. lit- 
tle while after. ‘The mayor had been gone some two or three 
minutes when the door again opened. It was the mayor. He 
still wore the same impassive and preoccupied air. 

‘“‘ Scaufflaire,” he said, ‘at how much do you value the 
tilbury and horse you are going to let me, one with the 
other?” 

** Do you wish to buy them, sir? ” 

‘No, but I should like to guarantee you against any acci- 
dent, and when I come back you can return me the amount. 
What is your estimate of their value? ” 

** Five hundred JueeS Mr. Mayor.” 

*“* Here they are.’ 

M. Madeleine laid a bank-note on the ead then went out; 
and this time did not come back. Master Scaufflaire regretted 
frightfully that he had not said a thousand francs, though 
tilbury and horse, at a fair valuation, were worth just three 
hundred. The Fleming called his wife and told her what 
had occurred. ‘* Where the deuce can the mayor be going? ” 
They held a council. ‘* He is going to Paris,” said the wife. 
**I don’t believe it,” said the husband. M. Madeleine had 
left on the table the paper on which he had written the figures. 
The Fleming took it up and examined it. “ Five, six, eight 
and a half. Why, that must mean post stations.” He 
turned to his wife: “ I have found it out.” “How?” * It 
is five leagues from here to Hesdin, six from there to St. Pol, 
and eight and a half from St. Pol to Arras. He is going to 
Arras.”’ 

In the meanwhile the mayor had returned home, and had 


238 FANTINE 


taken the longest road, as if the door of the priest’s house 
were a temptation which he wished to avoid. He went up to 
his bedroom and locked himself in, which was not unusual, 
for he was fond of going to bed at an early hour. Still, the 
factory portress, who was at the same time M. Madeleine’s 
only servant, remarked that his candle was extinguished at 
half-past eight, and mentioned the fact to the cashier when 
he came in, adding: —— 

“Can master be ill? I thought he looked very strange 
to-day.”” The cashier occupied a room directly under M. 
Madeleine. He paid no attention to the remarks of the 
portress, but went to bed and fell asleep. About midnight 
he woke with a start, for he heard in his sleep a noise above 
his head. He listened. It was a footfall coming and going, 
as if some one were walking akout the room above him. He 
listened more attentively, and recognized M. Madeleine’s step ; 
and this seemed to him strange, for usually no sound could 
be heard from the mayor’s room till he rose in the morning. 
A moment later the cashier heard a noise as if a wardrobe 
were opened and shut. A piece of furniture was moved, 
there was a pause, and the walking began again. The cash- 
ier sat up in bed, broad awake, looked out, and through his 
window noticed on a wall opposite the red reflection of a 
lighted window. From the direction of the rays it could 
only be the window of M. Madeleine’s bedroom. ‘The reflec- 
tion flickered as if it came from a fire rather than a candle, 
while the shadow of the window-frame could not be traced, 
which proved that the window was wide open; and this was 
curious, as it was very cold. The cashier fell asleep, and woke 
again some two hours after. ‘The same slow regular footfall 
was still audible above his head. The reflection was still cast 
on the wall, but was now pale and quiet, as if it came from a 
lamp or a candle. The window was still open. This is what 
occurred in M. Madeleine’s bedroom. ji 


FANTINE 239 


CHAPTER Ii 
a TEMPEST IN A BRAIN 


HE reader has, of course, guessed that M. Madeleine is 
Jean Valjean. We have already looked into the 
depths of his conscience, and the moment has come to look into 
them again. We do this not without emotion or tremor, for 
there is nothing more terrifying than this sort of contempla- 
tion. ‘The eye of the mind can nowhere find greater bril- 
liancy or greater darkness than within man. It cannot dwell 
on anything which is more formidable, complicated, mysteri- 
-ous, or infinite. There is a spectacle grander than the ocean, 
and that is the sky. There is.a spectacle grander than the 
sky, and it is the interior of the soul. 'To write the poem of 
the human conscience, were the subject only one man, and he 
the lowest of men, would be to reduce all epic poems to one 
supreme and final epic. Conscience is the chaos of chimeras, 
desires, and temptations, the furnace of dreams, the lurking- 
place of ideas of which we are ashamed. It is the pande- 
monium of sophistry, the battle-field of the passions. At cer- 
tain hours, look through the livid face of a man deep in 
thought, look into his soul, peer into the darkness. Beneath 
the external silence, combats of giants are going on, such as 
we read of in Homer. Battles between dragons and hydras 
and clouds of phantoms, such as we find in Milton; and vis- 
ionary circles, as in Dante. An awful thing is the infinitude 
which every man bears within him, and by which he de- 
spairingly measures the caprices of his brain and the actions 
of his life. Dante one day came to an ill-omened gate, before 
which he hesitated. We have one before us, on the threshold 
of which we also hesitate, but we will enter. 
We have but little to add to what the reader already knows 
as having happened to Jean Valjean since his adveriture with 
Little Gervais. From that moment, as we have seen, he be- 


240 FANTINE 


came another man, and he made himself what the bishop 
wished to make him. It was more than a transformation; it 
was a transfiguration. He succeeded in disappearing, sold 
the bishop’s plate, only keeping the candlesticks as a memento, 
passed through France, reached \ » had the idea we have 
described, accomplished what we have narrated, managed to 
make himself safe from seizure and inaccessible, and hence- 
forth settled at M » happy at feeling his conscience sad- 
dened by the past, and the first half of his existence contra- 
dicted by the last half. He lived peacefully, reassured and 
confident, and having but two thoughts,— to hide his name 
and sanctify his life; escape from men and return to God. 

These two thoughts were so closely blended in his mind 
that they formed but one. ‘They were equally absorbing and 
imperious, and governed his slightest actions. Usually they 
agreed to regulate the conduct of his life. ‘They turned him 
to the shadow. They rendered him beneficent and simple, 
and they counselled him to the same things. At times, how- 
ever, there was a conflict between them; and in such cases the 
man whom the whole town of M called Monsieur Made- 
leine did not hesitate to sacrifice the first for the second,— 
his security to his virtue. Hence, despite all his caution and 
prudence, he had kept the bishop’s candle-sticks, worn mourn- 
ing for him, questioned all the little Savoyards who passed 
through the town, inquired after the family at Faverolles, and 
saved the life of old Fauchelevent, in spite of the alarming in- 
sinuations of Javert. It seemed, as we have already re- 
marked, that he thought, after the example of all those who 
have been wise, holy, and just, that his first duty was not 
toward himself. 

Still, we are bound to say, nothing like the present had 
before occurred. Never had the two ideas which governed 
the unhappy man whose sufferings we are describing, entered 
upon so serious a struggle. He understood this confusedly, 
but deeply, from the first words which Javert uttered on 
entering his study. When the name which he had buried so 
deeply was so strangely pronounced, he was struck with 











—_— CO 


FANTINE 244 


stupor, and, as it were, intoxicated by the sinister peculiarity 
of his destiny. And through this stupor he felt that quiver 
which precedes great shocks. He bowed like an oak at the 
approach of a storm, like a soldier before a coming assault. 
He felt clouds charged with thunder and lightning gather 
over his head. As he listened to Javert his first thought 
was to go forth, to run and denounce himself, to take 
Champmathieu out of prison, and take his place. This was 
sharp and painful, like an incision in the flesh, but it passed 
away, and he said to himself, ‘*‘ We will see!*? He repressed 
this first generous impulse, and shrank from such heroism. 

It would doubtless have been grand if, after the bishop’s 
holy words, after so many years of repentance and self- 
denial, in the midst of a penitence so admirably begun, this 
man, even in the presence of such a terrible juncture, had 
not failed for a moment, but continued to advance at the 
same pace toward this open abyss, at the bottom of which lay 
heaven. ‘This would have been grand, but it did not take 
place. We are bound to describe all that took place in his 
mind, and we can only tell what was there. He was carried 
away at first by the instinct of self-preservation. He hastily 
collected his ideas, stifled his emotion, took into considera- 
tion Javert’s presence, that great danger, postponed any 
resolution with the firmness of terror, ceased to think of 
-what he had to do, and resumed his calmness as a gladiator 
picks up his buckler. 

I‘or the remainder of the day, he was in the same state,— 
a hurricane within, a deep tranquillity outside,— and he only 
took what may be called “ preservative measures.” All was 
still confused and jumbled in his brain. His trouble was 
so great that he did not see distinctly the outline of any idea; 
and he could have said nothing about himself, save that he 
had received a heavy blow. He went as usual to Fantine’s 
bed of pain, and prolonged his visit, with a kindly instinct, 
saying to himself that he must act thus, and recommended 
her to the sisters in the event of his being obliged to go away. 
He vaguely felt that he must perhaps go to Arras; and, 


242 FANTINE 


though not the least in the world decided about the journey, 
he said to himself that, safe from suspicion as he was, there 
would be no harm in witnessing what might take place; and 
he hired Scaufflaire’s tilbury, in order to be ready for any 
event. 

He dined with considerable appetite, and on returning to 
his bedroom, reflected. He examined his situation, and found 
it unprecedented — so unprecedented that, in the midst of 
his revery, from some almost inexplicable impulse of anx- 
iety, he rose from his chair and bolted his door. He was 
afraid lest something might enter, and he barricaded him- 
self against the possible. A moment after, he blew out his 
light, for it annoyed him, and he fancied that he might 
be overseen. By whom? Alas! what he wanted to keep out 
had entered. What he wished to blind was looking at him. 
It was his conscience,— that is to say, God. Still, at first, 
he deceived himself. He had a feeling of security and soli- 
tude. When he pushed the bolt, he thought himself impreg- 
nable. When the candle was out, he felt himself invisible. 
He then regained his self-possession, and he put his elbows 
on the table, leaned his head on his hand, and began to dream 
in the darkness. 

“Where am I? Am TI not dreaming? What was I told? 
Is it really true that I saw Javert, and that he spoke those 
words? Who can this Champmathieu be? It seems he 
looks like me. Is it possible? When I think that I was so 
tranquil yesterday, and so far from suspecting anything! 
What was I doing yesterday at this hour? What is there 
in this event? What will be the result of this? What am 
I to do?” 

Such was the trouble he was in that his brain had not the 
strength to retain ideas. ‘They passed like waves, and he 
clutched his forehead with both hands to stop them. From 
this tumult which overthrew alike his will and his reason, and 
from which he sought to draw evidence and resolution, noth- 
ing issued but agony. His head was burning; and he went 
to the window and threw it wide open. There were no stars 


FANTINE 243 


in the heavens; he went back to the table and sat down. The 
first hour passed away thus, but gradually vague features 
began to shape themselves and to become fixed in his thoughts ; 
and he could observe with the precision of reality some de- 
tails, if not the whole of the situation. He began by recog- 
nizing that, however critical and extraordinary his situation 
might be, he was utterly master of it, and his stupor only 
increased. 

Independently of the stern and religious object he had 
proposed to himself in his actions, all that he had done up 
to this day was only a hole that he dug in which to bury his 
name. What he had always most feared in his hours of re- 
flection, as in his sleepless nights, was ever to hear that name 
pronounced. He said to himself that this would be to him 
the end of everything; that on the day when that name re- 
appeared it would cause his new life, and possibly the new 
soul within him, to fade away. He shuddered at the mere 
thought that this might happen. Assuredly, if any one 
had told him at such moments that the hour would come 
when this name would ring in his ears, when the hideous 
of Jean Valjean would suddenly emerge from the darkness 
and rise before him, when this terrible light, capable of dis- 
sipating the mystery with which he surrounded himself, 
would suddenly shine above his head, and that the name would 
no longer menace him; that the light would produce only a 
denser gloom; that this rent veil would increase the mystery ; 
that the earthquake would strengthen his structure; that this 
prodigious incident would have no other result, if he thought 
proper, but to render his existence at once clearer and more 
impenetrable, and that from his meeting with the phantom of 
Jean Valjean, the good and worthy M. Madeleine would 
come forth more honoured, more peaceful, and more respected 
than ever,—if any one had told him this, he would have 
shaken his head and considered such remarks senseless. And 
yet this was exactly what had happened, and all these im- 
possibilities were a fact, and Heaven had permitted all these 
wild dreams to kecome real. 


244 FANTINE 


His revery continued to grow clearer, and each moment 
he realized his position better. It seemed to him that he had 
just waked from a dream, and that he was descending an 
incline in the middle of the night, shuddering and shrinking 
in vain from the brink of an abyss. He distinctly saw in 
the darkness an unknown man, a stranger, whom destiny mis- 
took for him and thrust into the gulf in his place. In order 
that the gulf should close, either he or another must fall in. 
He had only to let things take their course. The light be- 
came complete. He confessed to himself that his place in the 
galleys was empty; that, whatever he might do, it still 
awaited him, that the robbery of Little Gervais led him back 
to it, that this vacant place would wait for him and attract 
him until he filled it, and that this was inevitable and fatal. 
And then he said to himself that he now had a substitute; 
that it seemed that a man of the name of Champmathieu had 
his ill-luck ; and that, in future, being himself at the galleys 
in the person of this Champmathieu, and present in society 
under the name of Madeleine, he would have nothing more 
to fear, provided that he did not prevent justice from laying 
over the head of this Champmathieu the stone of infamy 
which, like the tombstone, falls once and is never raised 
again. | 

All this was so violent and so strange that he suddenly felt 
within him that indescribable emotion which no man experi- 
ences more than twice or thrice in his life,—a sort of con- 
vulsion of the conscience which stirs everything doubtful in 
the heart, which is composed of irony, joy, and despair, and 
might be called a burst of inward laughter. He abruptly 
relit his candle. 

“Well, what am I afraid of? ” he said to himself; “ why 
should I have such thoughts? I am saved, and all is set- 
tled. There was only one open door through which my past 
could invade my life; and that door is now walled up for- 
ever. ‘That Javert, who has so long annoyed me, whose 
terrible instinct seemed to have scented me out, and, by 
heavens! had scented me out, the frightful dog ever making 


FANTINE 245 


a point at me, is routed, engaged elsewhere, and absolutely 
thrown out! He is henceforth satisfied; he will leave me in 
peace, for he has found Jean Valjean! It is possible that 
he may wish to leave the town too. And all this has taken 
place without my interference; and so, what is there so un- 
lucky about it all? Upon my word, any one who saw me 
would think that some accident had befallen me. After all, 
if some people are made unhappy, it is no fault of mine. 
Providence has done it all, and apparently decrees it. Have 
I the right to meddle with the arrangements of Providence? 
What do I want now? What am I going to interfere in? 
It does not concern me. What! Iam not satisfied? Why! 
what else can I want? I have attained the goal to which I 
have aspired for so many years, the dream of my nights, the 
object of my prayers,— security. It is Heaven’s will. I 
cannot run counter to Heaven’s will. And why has Heaven 
decreed it? ‘That I may continue what I have begun; that 
I may do good; that I may one day be a grand and encour- 
aging example; that it may be said that there is, after all, 
a little happiness attaching to the penance I have under- 
gone, to that virtue to which I have returned. I really can- , 
not understand why I was so afraid just now to visit that 
worthy priest, to tell him all, as to a confessor, and to ask 
his advice; for this is certainly what he would have advised 
me. It is settled. I will let matters take their course, and 
leave the decision to Heaven.” 
He spoke thus in the depths of his conscience, leaning 
over what might be called his own abyss. He got up from 
his chair and walked about the room. ‘ Come,” he said, “I 
will think no more of it. I have made up my mind; ” but he 
felt no joy. Quite the contrary. It is no more possible to 
prevent thought from recurring to an idea than the sea from 
returning to the shore. The sailor calls this the tide; the 
culprit calls 1t remorse. God upheaves the soul like the 
ocean. After a few moments, do what he might, he resumed 
the gloomy dialogue in which it was he who spoke and he 
who listened, saying what he wished to ignore, listening to 


246 FANTINE 


what he did not desire to hear, and yielding to that mys- 
terious power which said to him “ Think,” as it said, two 
thousand years ago, to another condemned man, ‘‘ Move on.” 

Before going further, and in order to be fully understood, 
let us dwell on one necessary observation. It is certain that 
men do talk to themselves; and there is no thinking being 
who has not realized the fact. We may even say that the 
Word is never a more magnificent mystery than when it 
moves in a man’s innermost depths, from thought to con- 
science and back from conscience to thought. It is in this 
sense only that the words frequently employed in this chap- 
ter, ** he said,” ‘* he exclaimed,”? must be understood. Men 
talk to themselves, speak to themselves, cry out within them- 
selves, but the external silence is not interrupted. There is 
a grand tumult. Everything speaks within us, excepting 
the mouth. The realities of the soul, for all that they are 
not visible and palpable, are none the less realities. He asked 
himself where he stood, and cross-questioned himself about 
the resolution he had formed. He confessed to himself that 
all he had arranged in his mind was monstrous, and that 
leaving “‘ God to act” was simply horrible. To allow this 
mistake of destiny and of men to be accomplished, not to pre- 
vent it, to lend himself to it by his silence, to do nothing, in 
short, was to do everything. It was the last stage of hypo- 
critical odiousness; it was a low, cowardly, cunning, abject, 
hideous crime. For the first time in eight years this hap- 
less man tasted the bitter savour of a bad thought and a bad 
action, and he spat it out in disgust. 

He continued to cross-question himself. He asked himself 
what he meant by the words, “ My object is attained.” He 
allowed that his life had an object, but what was this object? 
To conceal his name; to deceive the police. Was it for so 
paltry a thing that he had done all that he had done? Had 
he not another object, which was the great and true one,— 
to save, not his person, but his soul; to become once again 
honest and good? To be a just man,— was it not that, 
above all, that only which he craved, and which the bishop 


FANTINE 247 


had commanded? ‘To close the door on his past? But he 
was not closing it; great Heavens! he was opening it again 
by committing an infamous action. He was becoming a 
robber once more, and the most odious of robbers: he was 
robbing another man of his existence, his life, his peace, and 
his place in the sunshine. He was becoming an assassin; he 
was killing, morally killing, a wretched man. He was in- 
flicting on him that frightful living death,— that death be- 
neath the free heavens which is called the galleys. On the 
other hand, if he gave himself up, freed this man who was suf- 
fering from so grievous an error, resumed his name, became, 
from a sense of duty the convict Jean Valjean,— that would 
be really completing his resurrection, and eternally closing the 
hell from which he was emerging. To fall back into it in 
seeming, would be to leave it in reality. He must do this. 
He had done nothing unless he did this. His life would be 
useless; all his repentance thrown away. It was too late to 
say, ‘* What’s the use?” He felt that the bishop was here, 
that he was the more present because he was dead, that the 
bishop was steadfastly looking at him, and that henceforth. 
Madeleine the mayor, with all his virtues, would be an 
abomination to him, and Jean Valjean the convict admirable 
and pure in his sight. Men saw his mask, but the bishop 
saw his face. Men saw his life, but the bishop saw his con- 
science. He must consequently go to Arras, deliver the 
false Jean Valjean, and denounce the true one. Alas! this 
was the greatest of sacrifices, the most painful of victories, 
the final step; but he must take it. Frightful destiny his! 
He could not obtain sanctity in the sight of Heaven unless 
he returned to infamy in the sight of man. 

“ Well,” he said, “I will make up my mind to this; I will 
do my duty and save this man.” 

He uttered these words aloud without noticing that he had 
raised his voice. He fetched his books, verified and put them 
in order. He threw into the fire a number of claims upon 
embarrassed tradesmen, and wrote a letter, which he ad- 
dressed “ To M. Lafitte, banker, Rue d’Artois, Paris.” He 


248 FANTINE | 


then took from his desk a pocket-book, which contained a 
few bank-notes and the passport he had used that year when 
he went to the elections. Any one who had seen him while he 
was accomplishing these various acts, with which such grave 
meditation was mingled, would not have suspected what was 
taking place in him. At moments his lips moved; then he 
raised his head and looked at the wall, as if there were some- 
thing there which he desired to clear up or to question. 

When the letter to Lafitte was finished, he put it into his 
portfolio, and began his walk once more. His revery had 
not swerved from its course. He still saw his duty clearly 
written in luminous letters which flashed before his eyes and 
moved from place to place with his glance: “‘ Go! Tell your 
name! denounce yourself!” We could also see, as though 
they moved before him in tangible form, the two ideas which 
had hitherto been the double rule of his life,— to hide his 
name and sanctify his life. For the first time they seemed 
to him absolutely distinct, and he saw the difference that 
separated them. He recognized that one of these ideas was 
necessarily good, while the other might become bad; that the 
former was devotion, the latter selfishness; that one said, 
“My neighbour,” the other ‘* Myself ”; that one proceeded 
from the light and the other from darkness. ‘They strove 
with each other, and he could see them contend. While he 
was thinking, they grew before his mental eye, and they had 
now colossal forms; and he fancied he could see a god and a 
giant wrestling within him, in the infinitude to which we just 
now alluded, and in the midst of darkness and light. It 
was a horrible sight, but it seemed to him as if the good 
thought gained the victory. He felt that he was approach- 
ing the second decisive moment of his life; that the bishop. 
had marked the first phase of his new life, and that this 
Champmathieu marked the second. After the great crisis 
came the great trial. 

The fever, appeased for a moment, gradually returned, 
however. A thousand thoughts crossed his mind, but they 
continued to strengthen him in his resolution. At one mo- 


FANTINE 249 


ment he said to himself that perhaps he regarded the matter 
too seriously ; that, after all, this Champmathieu did not con- 
cern him, and in any case was a thief. He answered him- 
self: “‘ If this man has really stolen apples, he should have 
a month’s imprisonment, but that is a long way from the 
galleys. And then, again, is it proved that he committed a 
robbery? ‘The name of Jean Valjean is crushing him, and 
seems to dispense with proofs. Does not the attorney for 
the crown always act in this way? A man is believed to be 
a thief. because he is known to be a convict.” At another 
moment the idea occurred to him that when he had denounced 
himself the heroism of his deed might perhaps be taken into 
consideration, as well as his honest life for the last seven 
years, and the good he had done the town, and that he would 
be pardoned. But this supposition soon vanished, and he 
smiled bitterly at the thought that the theft of forty sous 
from Gervais made him guilty of a second offence; that this 
affair would certainly be brought up, and according to the 
precise terms of the law would render him liable to be sen- 
tenced to the galleys for life. 

He turned away from all illusions, detached himself more 
and more from earth, and sought consolation and strength 
elsewhere. He said to himself that he must do his duty ; that 
perhaps he would be no more wretched after doing it than 
he would have been had he evaded it; that if he let matters 
take their course and remained at M , his good name, 
good deeds, the deference and respect paid to him, his charity, 
wealth, popularity, and virtue would be tainted by a crime; 
and what flavour would all these sacred things have when 
attached to this hideous thing; while, if he accomplished his 
sacrifice, he would mingle a heavenly idea with the galleys, 
the stake, the chain, the green cap, the unremitting toil, and 
the pitiless shame. At last he told himself that it was a 
necessity, that his destiny was thus shaped, that he had no 
power to change the decrees of Heaven, and that in any case, 
he must choose either outward virtue and inward abomina- 
tion, or holiness within and infamy without. His courage 





250 FANTINE 


did not fail him in revolving so many mournful ideas, but 
his brain grew weary. He involuntarily began to think of 
other and indifferent matters. ‘The veins in his temples 
throbbed, and he still walked up and down; midnight struck, 
first from the parish church, and then from the Town Hall. 
He counted the twelve strokes of the two clocks, and com- 
pared the sound of the two bells. He remembered, in this 
connection, that, a few days before, he had seen an old bell 
at a junkshop, on which was engraved the name, Antoine 
Albin, Romainville. 

As he felt cold, he lit a fire, but never thought of closing 
the window. Then he fell back into his stupor, and was 
obliged to make a mighty effort to remember what he had 
been thinking of before midnight struck. At last he suc- 
ceeded. 

““ Ah, yes,’ he said to himself, “I had resolved to de- 
nounce myself.” 

And then he suddenly began to think of Fantine. 

‘“‘ Stay,” he said, “and that poor woman!” 

Here a fresh crisis broke out. Fantine, suddenly appear- 
ing in the midst of his revery, was like a ray of unexpected 
light. He fancied that all around him changed, and he 
exclaimed :— 

Wait a minute! Hitherto I have thought of myself 
only, and consulted only my own convenience. Whether it 
suits me to be silent or denounce myself, to hide myself or 
to save my soul, to be a contemptible and respected magis- 
trate, or an infamous and venerable convict, it is always self, 
nought but self. Good heavens! all this is egotism,— under 
different shapes, *tis true, but still egotism. Suppose I 
were to think a little about others! It is the first duty of a 
Christian to think of his neighbour. Well, let me consider. 
Leaving myself out of the question, what will come of all 
this? If I denounce myself, I shall be arrested. That 
Champmathieu will be set at liberty. I shall be sent back to 
the galleys, and that is well; what then? What will occur 
here? Here are a town, factories, a trade, work-people, men, 


FANTINE 251 


women, old grandfathers, children, and poor people. I have 
created all this. I keep them all alive. Wherever there is a 
smoking-chimney, I placed the brand in the fire, and the 
meat in the pot. I produced easy circumstances, circula- 
tion, and credit. Before I came there was nothing of all 
this. I revived, animated, fertilized, stimulated, and en- 
riched the whole district. When I am gone the soul will be 
gone. If I withdraw, all will die; and then, this woman, 
who has suffered so greatly, who has so much merit in spite 
of her fall, and whose misfortune I unwittingly caused,— and 
the child which I intended to go and fetch and restore to 
the mother. Do not I also owe something to this woman, in 
reparation of the wrong which I have done her? If I dis- 
appear, what will happen? ‘The mother will die, and the 
child will become what it can. ‘This will happen if I de- 
nounce myself. If I do not denounce myself? Come, let 
me see.” 

After asking himself the question, he hesitated, and trem- 
bled slightly, but this emotion lasted but a short time, and 
he answered himself calmly :— 

“Well, this man will go to the galleys, it is true; but, 
hang it all! he has stolen. Although I may say to myself that 
he had not stolen, he has done so! I remain here and con- 
tinue my operations. In ten years I shall have gained ten 
millions. I scatter them over the country. I keep nothing 
for myself; but what do I care? I am not doing this for 
myself. ‘The general prosperity is increased. Trades are 
revived, factories and forges are multiplied, and thousands 
of families are happy. ‘The district is populated. Villages 
spring up where there are only farms, and farms where 
nothing exists; wretchedness disappears, and with it de- 
bauchery, prostitution, robbery, murder, all the vices, all 
the crimes; this poor mother brings up her child, and a 
whole country is made rich and honest. Why, I was mad, 
absurd, when I talked of denouncing myself. I must guard 
against haste. What! because it pleases me to play the 
grand and the generous,— it is pure melodrama, after all; 


252 FANTINE 


because I only thought of myself, myself alone, and in order 
to save from a perhaps exaggerated though substantially just 
punishment a stranger, a thief, and an apparent scoundrel, 
—a whole department must perish, a poor woman die in 
the hospital, and a poor child starve in the streets, like dogs! 
Why, it is abominable! Without the mother seeing her 
child again, or the child knowing her mother! And all this 
on behalf of an old scamp of an apple-stealer, who has as- 
suredly deserved the galleys for something else, if not for 
that. ‘These are fine scruples which save the guilty and 
sacrifice the innocent, which save an old vagabond who has 
not many years to live, and who will be no more unhappy 
at the galleys than in his hovel, and destroy an entire popu- 
lation,— mothers, wives, and children. ‘That poor little 
Cosette, who has only me in the world, and is doubtless at 
this moment shivering with cold in the den of these Thénar- 
diers. There is another pair of wretches. And shall I fail 
in my duties to all these poor creatures, and commit such a 
folly as to denounce myself! Let us put things at the worst. 
Suppose that I commit a bad action in this, and that 
my conscience reproach me with it some day; there will 
be devotion and virtue in accepting, for the good of 
my neighbour, these reproaches, which weigh only on 
me, and this bad action, which compromises only my own 
suul.” | 

He got up and began to walk to and fro. This time he 
seemed satisfied with himself. Diamonds are only found in 
the darkness of the earth. ‘Truths are only found in the 
depths of the thought. It seemed to him that after de- 
scending into these depths, after groping long in the dens- 
est of this darkness, he had found one of these diamonds, one 
of these truths, which he held in his hand, and which dazzled 
his eyes when he looked at it. 

“Yes,” he thought, “I am on the right track, and hold 
the solution of the problem. A man must hold fast to some- 
thing, and my mind is made up. I will let matters take 
their course, so no more vacillation or backsliding. It is for 


FANTINE 253 


the interest of all, not of myself. I am Madeleine, and re- 
main Madeleine; and woe to the man who is Jean Valjean. 
I am no longer he. I do not know that man; and if any one 
happen to be Jean Valjean at this moment, he must look 
out for himself, for it does not concern me. It is a fatal 
name floating in darkness; and if it pause and alight on a 
head, all the worse for that head.” 

He looked into the small looking-glass over the mantel- 
piece, and said :— 

“‘ There! it has relieved me to come to a decision! I am 
quite another man now!” 

He walked a little way and then stopped short. ‘‘ Come,” 
he said, “ I must not shrink from any of the consequences of 
my resolve. ‘There are threads which still attach ine to Jean 
Valjean; they must be broken. There are in this very room 
objects which would betray me,— dumb things which would 
witness against me, and they must all disappear.” 

He took his purse from his pocket, and drew a small key 
out of it. He put this key in a lock, which could scarcely be 
seen, for it was hidden in the darkest part of the design on 
the paper that covered the walls. &lt;A secret place flew open, 
—a sort of false cupboard made between the corner of the 
wall and the mantelpiece. In this hiding-place there were 
only a few rags,— a blue blouse, worn trousers, an old knap- 
sack, and a large thorn-stick, shod with iron at both ends. 
Any one who saw Jean Valjean pass through D in Oc- 
tober, 1815, would easily have recognized all the articles of 
this miserable outfit. He had preserved them, as he had 
done the candlesticks, that they might constantly remind 
him of his starting-point; still he hid what came from the 
galleys, and displayed the candlesticks which came from the 
bishop. He cast a furtive glance at the door, as if afraid 
that it might open in spite of the bolt; and then, with a 
rapid movement, he made but one armful of the things which 
he had so religiously and perilously kept for so many years, 
and threw them all,— rags, stick, and knapsack,— into the 
fire. He closed the cupboard, and, redoubling his precau- 





254 FANTINE 


tions, which were now useless, since it was empty, dragged a 
heavy piece of furniture in front of it. In a few seconds 
the room and the opposite wall were lit up with a fierce, red, 
flickering glow. All was burning, and the thorn-stick 
crackled and threw out sparks into the middle of the room. 
From the knapsack, as it burned with all the rags it con- 
tained, fell something that glistened in the ashes. By stoop- 
ing, it was easily recognized as a coin. It was doubtless the 
little Savoyard’s two-franc piece. He did not look at the 
fire, and continued his walk backward and forward. All at 
once his eyes fell on the candlesticks, which shone vaguely on 
the mantelpiece in the firelight. 

“Stay,” he thought, “all Jean Valjean is in them, and 
they must be destroyed too.” 

He seized the candlesticks; there was a fire large enough 
to destroy their shape and convert them into unrecognizable 
ingots. He leaned over the hearth and warmed his hands for 
a moment. It was a great comfort to him. ‘ What a pleas- 
ant heat!” he said. 

He stirred the coals with one of the candlesticks, and in a 
moment they were both in the fire. AJl at once he fancied 
he heard a voice within him cry, “‘ Jean Valjean! Jean Val- 
jean!” His hair stood erect, and he became like a man who 
is listening to some terrible thing. 

“Yes, that is right; finish!’’ said the voice; ‘‘ complete 
your work; destroy those candlesticks, annihilate that mem- 
ory! forget the bishop! forget everything! ruin that Champ- 
mathieu; that is right! Applaud yourself; come, all is 
settled, resolved, fixed. This old man, who does not know 
what they want with him, who perhaps has done nothing, an 
inocent man, whose whole misfortune is your name, on 
whom your name weighs like a crime, who will be taken for 
you, will be sentenced, and will end his days in abjectness 
and horror. That is excellent! Be an honest man: your- 
self; remain mayor, honourable and honoured, enrich the 
town, assist the poor, bring up orphans, live happy, vir- 
tuous, and applauded; and all the time, while you are here 


FANTINE 255 


in joy and light, there will be a man who wears your red 
jacket, bears your name in ignominy, and drags your chain 
at the galleys. Yes, that is excellently arranged. Oh, you 
scoundrel ! ”’ 

The perspiration beaded on his forehead, and he fixed 
his haggard eyes upon the candlesticks. The voice within, 
however, had not ended yet. 

** Jean Valjean! There will be around you many voices 
making a great noise, speaking very loud and blessing you, 
and only one which none will hear, and which will curse you 
in the darkness. Well, listen, infamous man! All these 
blessings will fall back to the ground before they reach 
heaven, and the curse alone will ascend to God! ” 

This voice, very faint at first, which spoke from the ob- 
scurest nook of his conscience, had gradually become sonor- 
ous and terrible, and he now heard it in his very ear. He 
fancied it was not his own voice, and he seemed to hear the 
last words so distinctly that he looked around the room with 
a sort of terror. 

“Is there any one here?” he asked in a loud, startled 
voice. 

Then he continued, with a laugh which seemed almost 
idiotic :-— 

“© What a fool I am! there can be nobody.” 

There was some one; but He was not of those whom the 
human eye can see. 
He placed the candlesticks on the mantelpiece, and then re- 
sumed that melancholy, mournful tramp which aroused the 
sleeper underneath him. ‘This pacing to and fro relieved 
him, and at the same time intoxicated him. It sometimes 
seems as if on supreme occasions people move about to ask 
advice of everything they pass. At the end of a few mo- 
ments he no longer knew where he stood. He now recoiled 
with equal horror from the two resolves he had formed in 
turn. The two ideas that counselled him seemed one as 
desperate as the other. What a fatality that this Champ- 
mathieu should be taken for him! He was hurled down by 


256 FANTINE 


precisely the means which Providence at first seemed to have 
employed to strengthen his position. 

There was a moment during which he considered his fu- 
ture. Denounce himself! great heavens! give himself up! 
He thought with immense despair of all that he must give 
up, of all that he must resume. He should be forced to bid 
farewell to this good, pure, radiant existence,—to the re- 
spect of all, to honour, to liberty! He should nq longer 
stroll about the fields: he should no longer hear the birds sing 
in the month of May, or give alms to the little children! He 
should no longer feel the sweet glances of gratitude and love 
fixed upon him. He should leave this little house, which he 
had built, and his little bedroom. All appeared charming 
to him at this moment. He should no longer read those 
books or write atthe little deal table. His old servant 
would no longer bring up his coffee in the morning. Great 
God! instead of all this, there would be the gang, the red 
jacket, the chain on his foot, fatigue, the dungeon, the camp- 
bed, and all the horrors which he knew! At his age, after 
all he had been! It would be different were he still young. 
But to be old, to be rudely addressed by anybody who pleased, 
to be searched by the jailer, and to receive blows from the 
keeper’s stick; to thrust his naked feet into iron-shod shoes ; 
to offer his leg morning and night to the hammer of the 
roundsman who visits the gang; to endure the curiosity of 
strangers who would be told, “That its the famous Jean 
Valjean, who was mayor of M——.” At night, when 
streaming with perspiration and crushed by fatigue, with 
a green cap on his head, to go up two by two, under the 
sergeant’s lash, the ladder stairs of the hulks! Oh, what 
misery! Destiny, then, can be as wicked as an intelligent be- 
ing and prove as monstrous as the human heart! 

And, whatever he might do, he ever fell back into this 
overwhelming dilemma, which was the basis of his revery: 
remain in paradise, and become a demon there; or re-enter 
hell, and become an angel? What should he do, great God! 
what should he do? The torment, from which he had es- 


FANTINE 257 


caped with such difficulty, was again let loose within him, 
and his thoughts became confused once more. They as- 
sumed a confused and mechanical character akin to despair. 
_ The name of Romainville incessantly returned to his mind, 
with two lines of a song which he had formerly heard. He 
remembered that Romainville is a little wood, near Paris, 
where lovers go to pick lilacs in April. He reeled both 
physically and mentally. He walked like a little child al- 
lowed to go alone. At certain moments, he struggled against 
his lassitude, and tried to recover his mental balance; he 
tried to set himself, for the last time, the problem over which 
he had fallen prostrate with exhaustion,— must he denounce 
himself, or must he be silent? He could not succeed in see- 
ing anything distinctly, the vague outlines of all the argu- 
ments sketched by his revery were dissipated in turn like 
smoke. Still, he felt that, however he resolved, and without 
any possibility of escape, something belonging to him must 
die; that he entered a sepulchre, whether on his right hand 
or his left, and that either his happiness or his virtue would 
be borne to the grave. 

Alas! all his irresolution had again seized him, and he 
was no further advanced than at the beginning. Thus the 
wretched soul writhed in agony! Eighteen hundred years 
before this hapless man, the mysterious Being in whom are 
summed up all the sanctities and all the suffering of hu- 
manity, He, too, while the trees on the Mount of Olives 
shuddered before the wild wind of the infinite, long sought to 
put away the bitter cup which appeared before Him, drip- 
ping with shadows and overflowing with darkness in starry 
‘ioe 


258 FANTINE 


CHAPTER IV 
THE FORMS THAT SUFFERING TAKES IN SLEEP 


HREE o’clock in the morning had struck, and he had 
been walking about in this way for five hours without 
a break, when he sank into his chair. He fell asleep, and 
had a dream. This dream, like most dreams, had no con- 
nection with his situation save that it was painful and sin- 
ister, but it made an impression on him. “ This nightmare 
struck him so much that he wrote it down at a later date, 
and we think we are bound to transcribe it literally; for, 
whatever the history of this man may be, it would be in- 
complete if we omitted it. It is the gloomy adventure of a 
sick soul. Here it is then; on the envelope we find the line,— 
“ The dream I had that night.” 


“I was upon a plain, a large, mournful plain, on which no grass 
grew. It did not seem to me to be day, but it was not night. I was 
walking with my brother, the brother of my boyish years, of whom I[ 
am bound to say I never think, and whom I scarce remember. We 
were talking, and we met travellers. We spoke about a woman, for- 
merly a neighbour of ours, who had always worked with her window 
Open ever since she had lived on that street. While talking, we felt 
cold on account of this open window. There were no trees on the 
plain. We saw a man pass close by us; he was perfectly naked, of 
the colour of ashes, mounted on a horse of an earthen colour. The 
man had no hair, and we could see his skull and the veins on it. He 
beld in his hand a wand, which was supple as a vine-twig and heavy 
as lead. This horseman passed and said nothing to us. 

“My brother said to me: ‘Let us turn into the hollow way.” 

“There was a hollow way in which not a bramble or even a patch 
of moss could be seen; all was earth-coloured, even the sky. After going 
a few yards, I received no answer when I spoke, and I noticed that my 
brother was no longer with me. I entered a village that I saw, and 
I fancied that it must be Romainville. (Why Romainville?)1 The 
first street I entered was deserted; I entered a second street, and be- 
hind the angle formed by the two streets a man was standing against 
the wall. I asked this man, ‘What is this place? Where am I?’ but 
he gave me no answer. I saw the door of a house open, and walked in. 


1 This parenthesis is by Jean Valjean. 


FANTINE 259 


“The first room was deserted, and I entered a second. Behind the 
door of this room there was a man leaning against the wall. I asked 
him, ‘To whom does this house belong? Where am I?’ but the man 
gave me no answer. I went out into the garden of the house, and it 
was deserted. Behind the first tree I found a man standing. I said 
to the man, ‘Whose is this garden? Where am I?’ but he made me 
no answer. 

“I wandered about this village and perceived that it was a town. 
All the streets were deserted, all the doors open. Not a living soul 
passed along the street, moved in the rooms, or walked in the gar- 
dens. But there was behind every corner, every door, and every tree, 
a man standing silently. I never saw more than one at a time, and 
these men looked at me as I passed. 

“1 left the town and began to roam the fields. At the end of some 
time I turned back and saw a great crowd coming after me. I recog- 
nized all the men whom I had seen in the town, and they had strange 
heads. They did not appear to be in a hurry, and yet they walked 
faster than I, and made no noise in walking. In an instant this crowd 
joined me and surrounded me. The faces of these men were earth- 
coloured. Then the man I had seen first and questioned when I en- 
tered the town, said to me, ‘Where are you going? Do you know that 
you have been dead for a long time?’ I opened my mouth to answer, 
and I perceived that there was no one near me.” 


He woke, chilled to the marrow, for a wind, cold as the 
morning breeze, was rattling the open window. ‘The fire 
had died away, the candle was nearly burned out, and it was 
still black night. He rose and went to the window; there 
were no stars in the sky. From his window he could see the 
yard and the street, and a dry, sharp sound on the ground 
below induced him to look out. He saw two red stars whose 
rays lengthened and shortened curiously in the gloom. As 
his mind was half submerged in the mist of dreams, he 
thought, ** There are no stars in the sky; they are on earth 
now.” &lt;A second sound like the first completely woke him, 
and he saw that those two stars were carriage-lamps, and by 
the light which they cast he could make out the shape of 
the vehicle,— it was a tilbury, in which a small white horse 
was harnessed. ‘The sound he had heard was the pawing of 
the horse’s hoof on the ground. 

“ What’s the meaning of this? ” he said to himself; ‘* who 
can have come so early? ” 

At this moment there was a gentle tap at his bedroom 


ar = 


260 FANTINE 


door. He shuddered from head to foot, and shouted in a 
terrible voice, “‘ Who’s there? ” 

Some one replied, “I sir,” and he recognized his old 
servant’s voice. 

“ Well,” he replied, “ what is it? ” 

“It is getting on for five o’clock, sir.” 

“What is that to me? ” 

“The tilbury has come, sir.” 

“ What tilbury? ” 

“Did you not order one? ” 

‘“* No,’’ said he. 

“The hostler says that he has come to fetch you, sir.” 

“What hostler? ” 

“ Master Scaufflaire’s.” 

This name made him start as if a flash of lightning had 
passed before his eyes. 

*“* Ah, yes,” he repeated, “* Master Scaufflaire.” 

Could the old woman have seen him at this moment, she 
would have been horrified. ‘There was a prolonged silence, 
during which he stupidly examined the candle flame, and 
took some of the burning wax from around the wick and 
rolled it in his fingers. The old woman, who was waiting, 
at length mustered up courage to raise her voice again. 

** Mr. Mayor, what answer am I to give?” 

“Say it is quite right, and that I shall be down 
directly.” 





CHAPTER V. 


OBSTACLES 





HE letter-bags between Arras and M were still 
carried in small mail-carts, dating from the empire. 
They were two-wheeled vehicles, lined with tawny leather, 
hung on springs, and having only two seats, one for the 


FANTINE 261 


driver, and another for a passenger. 'The wheels were armed 
with those long, offensive axle-trees which keep other car- 
riages at a distance, and which may still be seen on German 
roads. ‘The compartment for the bags was an immense oblong 
box at the back; it was painted black, and the carriage yellow. 
These vehicles, like which we have nothing at the present day, 
had something ugly and humpbacked about them, and when 
you saw them pass at a distance, or creep up a hill on the hori- 
zon, they resembled white ants which with a small body drag a 
heavy load after them. 'They went very fast, however, and 
the mail which left Arras at one in the morning, after the 
Paris mail had arrived, reached M a little before five. 

On this morning, the mail-cart, just as it entered M : 
while turning a corner, ran into a tilbury drawn by a white 
horse, coming in the opposite direction, in which there was 
only one person, a man wrapped in a cloak. The wheels of 
the tilbury received rather a heavy blow, and though the 
driver of the mail-cart shouted to the man to stop, he did 
not listen, but went on at a smart trot. 

‘““That man is in a deuce of a hurry,” said the mail- 
carrier. 

The man in this hurry was he whom we have just seen 
struggling in convulsions, assuredly deserving of pity. 
Where was he going? He could not have told. Why was 
he hurrying? WHe did not know. He was driving straight 
ahead at random. Whither? Doubtless to Arras; but he 
might also be going elsewhere. He felt this, and shivered. 
He buried himself in the darkness as in a gulf. Something 
urged him on; something attracted him. What was going 
on in him no one could tell, but all will understand it; for 
what man has not entered, at least once in his life, this ob- 
scure cavern of the unknown? However he had settled noth- 
ing, decided nothing, and done nothing; not one of the acts 
of his conscience had been final, and he was still as unsettled 
as at the beginning. 

Why was he going to Arras? He repeated what he had 
already said on hiring Scaufflaire’s gig, that, whatever the 








262 FANTINE 


result might be, there would be no harm in seeing with his 
own eyes, and judging matters for himself; that this was 
prudent, and he was bound to know what was going on; 
that he could not decide anything till he had observed and 
examined ; that, at a distance, a man made mountains of mole- 
hills ; that after all, when he had seen this Champmathieu, his 
conscience would probably be greatly relieved, and he could 
let the scoundrel go to the galleys in his place; that Javert 
would be there and the three convicts who had known him,— 
but, nonsense! they would not recognize him, for all con- 
jectures and all suppositions were fixed on this Champmathieu, 
and there is nothing so obstinate as conjecture and supposi- 
tion; hence he incurred no danger. It was doubtless a black 
moment, but he would emerge from it. After all, he held 
his destiny, however adverse it might be, in his own hands, 
and was master of it. He clung wildly to the latter thought. 

Although, to tell the whole truth, he would have preferred 
not to go to Arras; yet he went. While reflecting, he lashed 
the horse, which was going at that regular, steady trot which 
covers two leagues and a half im an hour; and as the gig ad- 
vanced, he felt something within him shrink. At daybreak 
he was in the open country, and the town of M was far 
behind him. He watched the horizon grow white; he looked, 
without seeing them, at all the cold figures of a winter dawn. 
Morning has its spectres like night. He did not see them; 
but unconsciously, and through a sort of physical penetra- 
tion, those black outlines of trees and hills added something 
gloomy and sinister to the violent state of his soul. Every 
time that he passed one of those isolated houses which skirt 
high-roads, he said to himself: ‘‘ And yet there are people 
asleep in there.” The trot of the horse, the bells on the 
harness, the wheels on the stones, produced a gentle, mo- 
notonous sound, which is delightful when you are merry, and 
mournful when you are sad. 

It was broad daylight when he reached Hesdin, and he 
stopped at the inn to let the horse breathe and give him some 
oats. This horse, as Scaufflaire had said, belonged to that 





FANTINE 263 


small Boulonnais breed which has too large a head, too much 
belly, and not enough neck and shoulders; but which also 
has a broad chest, large crupper, lean, slender legs, and solid 
hoofs; it is an ugly, but a strong and healthy breed. The 
capital little beast had done five leagues in two hours, and had 
not turned a hair. 

He did not get out of the tilbury ; the hostler who brought 
the oats suddenly stooped down and examined the left wheel. 

** Are you going far in this state? ” said he. 

Madeleine answered, almost without rousing himself from 
his revery : — 

“Why do you ask?” 

** Have you come any distance? ” continued the hostler. 

** Five leagues.” 

66 Ah! nel 

“Why do you say ‘ Ah’ ?” 

The hostler bent down again, was silent for a moment, 
with his eye on the wheel, and then said, as he rose: — 

‘“* Because this wheel, which may have gone five leagues, 
cannot possibly go another mile.” 

Madeleine jumped out of the tilbury. 

** What do you say, my friend? ” 

**T say that it is a miracle you and your horse did not 
roll into a ditch by the roadside. Just look!” 

The wheel was, in fact, seriously damaged. The blow 
dealt it by the mail-cart fd broken two spokes, and strained 
the hub, so that the nut was loose. 

‘“*My good fellow,” he said to the hostler, “is there a 
wheelwright here? ” 

** Of course, sir.” 

“Be good enough to go and fetch him.” 

‘“* He lives close by. Hillo, Master Bourgaillard!”. 

Master Bourgaillard was standing in his door-way; he ex- 
amined the wheel, and made a face like a surgeon looking at 
a broken leg. 

“Can you mend this wheel? ” 

“Yes, sir.” 


264 FANTINE 


“When can I start again?” 

“To-morrow; there is a good day’s work. Are you in a 
hurry, sir?” 

“In a great hurry; I must set out again in an hour at 
the latest. 

‘It is impossible, sir.” 

“ ¥ will pay anything you ask.” 

‘* Impossible.” 

“ Well, in two hours? ” 

“It is impossible for to-day; you will not be able to go 
on till to-morrow. There are two new spokes and a hub to be 
made.” 

“My business cannot wait till to-morrow. Suppose, in- 
stead of mending this wheel, you were to put another on? ” 

** How so?” 

“You are a wheelwright and have probably a wheel you 
can sell me, and then I could set out again directly.” 

‘J have no ready-made wheel to suit your gig; for wheels 
are sold in pairs, and it is not easy to match one.” 

“Then sell me a pair of wheels.” 

“¢ All wheels, sir, do not fit all axle-trees.” 

“‘ At any rate, try.” 

“It is useless, sir; I have only cart-wheels for sale, for 
ours is a small place.” 

‘Have you a gig I can hire?” 

The wheelwright had noticed at a glance that the tilbury 
was a hired vehicle; he shrugged his shoulders. 

“You take such good care of the gigs that you hire, that 
if I had one I would not let it to you.” 

** Well, sell me one.” 

‘“*T have not one.” 

“What! not a tax-cart? I am not particular, as you 
see.” 

“This is a small place. I have certainly,” the wheel- 
wright added, “an old calash in my stable which belongs 
to a person in the town, who gave it to me to take care 
of, and who only uses it on the thirty-sixth day of every 


FANTINE 265 


month,— that is to say, never. I could certainly let it out 
to you, for it is no concern of mine, but the owner must not 
see it pass ; besides, it is a calash, and will want two horses.” 

** TI will hire post-horses. ‘i 

‘Where are you going, sir? ” 

*¢'To Arras.” 

‘And you wish to get there to-day? ” 

** Certainly.” : 

‘** By taking post-horses? ” 

Why not? ” 

** Does it make any difference to you if you reach Arras 
at four o’clock to-morrow morning? ” 

**Of course it does.” 

‘There is one thing to be said about hiring post-horses. 
Have you your passport, sir? ” 

6é Yes.”’ 

“Well, if you take post-horses, you will not reach Arras 
before to-morrow. We are on a cross-country road. The 
relays are badly served, and the horses are out at work. 
This is the plewing season, and as strong teams are required, 
horses are taken anywhere, from the post-houses as well as 
elsewhere. You will have to wait three or four hours, sir, 
at each station, and only go at a foot-pace, for there are 
many hills to climb.” 

“Well, I will ride. Take the horse out. I suppose I can 
buy a saddle here? ” 

** Of course; but will this horse carry a saddle? ” 

‘**'No, I remember now that it will not.” 

“In that case — ?” 

** But surely I can hire a saddle-horse in the village? ” 

What! to go to Arras without a break? ” 

66 Yes.” 

“You would want such a horse as is not to be found in 
these parts. In the first place, you would have to buy it, 
as you are a stranger; but you would not find one to buy 
or hire for five hundred francs,— not for a thousand.” 

‘What is to be done? ” 


266 FANTINE 


‘¢'The best thing, to speak plainly, is to let me mend the 
wheel and put off your journey till to-morrow.” 

‘To-morrow will be too late.” 

“ Confound it!” 

‘Ts there not the Arras mail-coach? When does that 

ass? 

“ Not till to-night. Both posts go at night, the outward 
as well as the inward one.” 

“ What! you will take a whole day to mend that wheel! ” 

‘‘ A day, and a gcod long one.” 

‘‘Suppose you employed two workmen? ” 

** Ay, if I had ten.” 

‘¢ Suppose the spokes were tied with ropes? ” 

‘That might answer for the spokes, but not for the hub. 
Besides, the felloe is in a bad state.”’ 

‘“‘ Is there any one who lets out vehicles in the town? ” 

66 No.”’ 

‘Is there another wheelwright? ” 

The hostler and the wheelright replied simultaneously, 
tossing their heads: — 

66 No.” 

He felt an immense joy, for it was evident that Prov- 
idence was interfering. It was Providence that had broken 
the wheel and stopped his journey. He had not yielded 
to this first summons; he had made every possible effort to 
continue his journey; he had loyally and scrupulously ex- 
hausted all resources; he had not been deterred by the season, 
fatigue, or expense; and he had nothing to reproach himself 
with. If he did not go farther, it did not concern him; it was 
not his fault, it was not the doing of his conscience, but of 
Providence. 

He breathed freely and fully for the first time since 
Javert’s visit. He felt as if the iron hand which had con- 
strained his heart for twenty hours had relaxed its grasp; 
God now appeared to be on his side, and declared Himself 
openly. He said to himself that he had done all in his 
power, and need only return home quietly. 


— 


FANTINE 267 


Had the conversation with the wheelwright taken place 
in an inn-room, it would probably not have been heard by any 
one; matters would have remained in this state, and we should 
probably not have had to record any of the following events, 
but the conversation took place in the street. Any colloquy 
in the street inevitably produces a crowd, for there are al- 
ways people who only ask to be spectators. While he was 
questioning the wheelwright some passers-by stopped, and a 
lad to whom no one paid any attention, after listening for 
some moments, ran off. Just as the traveller had made up his 
mind to turn back, this boy returned, accompanied by an old 
woman. 

‘‘ Sir,” said the woman, “my boy tells me that you wish 
to hire a conveyance.” 

This simple remark, made by an old woman led by a 
child, made the perspiration pour down his back. He 
fancied he saw the hand which had let him loose reappear 
in the shadow behind him, ready to clutch him again. He 
replied: — 

“*'Yes, my good woman, I want to hire a gig.” And he 
hastily added, “‘ But there is not one in the town.” 

*¢ Yes, there is,” said the old woman. 

“Where? ” asked the wheelwright. 

‘“* At my house,”’ answered the old crone. 

He gave a start, for the fatal hand had again seized 
him. ‘The poor woman really had a sort of wicker-cart under 
a shed. ‘The wheelwright and the hostler, sorry to see the 
traveller escape them, interfered: — 

“It is a frightful rattle-trap, and has no springs; the 
inside seats are actually hung with leathern straps; it 
leaks, the wheels are rusty, and ready to fall to pieces; it 
will not go much farther than the tilbury; the gentleman 
had better not get into it,” — and so on. 

All this was true, but the rattle-trap, whatever it might 
be, went on two wheels, and could go to Arras. He paid what 
was asked, left the tilbury to be repaired against his return, 
had the white horse put into the cart, climbed in, and went 


268 FANTINE 


his away. When the cart moved off, he confessed that a 
moment before he had felt a certain joy at the thought that 
he could not go where he was now going. He examined 
this joy with a sort of passion, and found it absurd. Why 
did he feel joy at turning back? After all, he was making 
this journey of his own free will, and no one forced him to 
do so. And assuredly nothing could happen, except what 
he liked. As he was leaving Hesdin, he heard a voice shout- 
ing to him, “Stop, stop!” He stopped the cart with a 
hurried movement in which there was something feverish and 
convulsive that resembled hope. It was the old woman’s 
boy. 

‘ Sir,” he said, “it was I who got you the cart.” 

Well? ” 

* You have given me nothing.” 

He who gave to all, and so readily, considered this de- 
mand exorbitant, and almost odious. 

“Oh, it’s you, scamp,” he said; “ well, you will not get 
anything.” 

He flogged his horse, which started again at a smart trot. 
He had lost much time at Hesdin, and wished to make it up. 
The little horse was courageous, and worked for two; but it 
was February, it had been raining, the roads were bad. The 
cart, too, ran much more heavily than, the tilbury, and there 
were numerous hills. He took nearly four hours to go from 
Hesdin to St. Pol; four hours for five leagues! At 
St. Pol he pulled up at the first inn, and had the 
horse put in a stable. As he had promised Scaufflaire, he 
stood near the crib while it was eating. His mind was filled 
with troubled and confused thoughts. The landlady entered 
the stable. 

“Do you not wish to breakfast, sir? ” 

“Eh! Yes, of course!” he said. “Why, I am very 
hungry.” 

He followed the woman, who had a healthy, cheerful face; 
she led him to a low-ceiled room, where there were tables 
covered with oil-cloth. 


FANTINE | 269 


“Make haste,” said he, “ for I must be off; I am in a 
great hurry.” 

A plump Flemish servant girl hastened to lay the cloth, 
and he looked at her with a feeling of comfort. 

“That is what ailed me,” he thought; “I had not break- 
fasted.” 

He seized the bread, bit a mouthful, and then slowly laid 
it back on the table, and did not touch it again. A wagoner 
was sitting at another table, and Madeleine said to him: — 

“¢ Why is this bread so bitter? ” 

The wagoner was a German, and did not understand him ; 
he returned to the stable to his horse. An hour later he had 
left St. Pol, and was proceeding toward Tinques, which is 
only five leagues from Arras. What did he do during the 
drive? Of what was he thinking? As in the morning, he 
looked at the trees, the thatched roofs, the plowed fields, and 
the diversities of a landscape which every turn in the road 
changed as he passed. What is more melancholy and more 
profound than to see a thousand different objects for the 
first and last time! This is a form of contemplation which 
sometimes suffices the soul, and almost does away with the 
necessity of thought. To travel is to be born and to die 
at every moment. Perhaps, in the vaguest region of his 
mind, he made a comparison between the changing horizon 
and human existence, for everything in this life is continually 
flying before us. Darkness and light are blended; after 
radiant light comes eclipse; we look, we hasten, we stretch 
forth our hands to grasp fugitive things; every event is a 
turn in the road, and all at once we are old. We feel a 
shock, all is black, we see an obscure door, and the gloomy 
horse of life which has dragged us thus far, stops, and we see 
a veiled, unknown form unharnessing it amid the shadows. 
Twilight was setting in as the school-boys, leaving school, 
saw this traveller enter Tinques. He did not halt there, but 
as he left the village, a road-mender, who was laying stones, 
raised his head, and said: — 

‘¢ Your horse is very tired.” 


270 FANTINE 


The poor brute, in fact, could not get beyond a walk. 

“Are you going to Arras?” continued the road-mender. 

“Tf you go at that pace, you will not reach it very 
soon.” 

He stopped his horse, and asked the road-mender: — 

“How far is it from here to Arras? ” 

‘“* Nearly seven long leagues.” 

“‘ How so? The post-book says only five and a quarter 
leagues.” 

“* Ah,” returned the road-mender, “ you do not know that 
the road is under repair; you will find it closed about a mile 
farther on, and it is impossible to pass.” 

** Indeed? ” 

**’You must take the road on the left, leading to Carency, 
and cross the river; when you reach Camblin, turn to the 
right, for it is the Mont St. Eloy road that runs to Arras.” 

** But I shall lose my way in the dark.” 

‘You do not belong to these parts? ” 

66 No.”? 

“And it is a cross-road; stay, sir,” continued the road- 
mender, “ will you let me give you a piece of advice? Your 
horse is tired, so return to Tinques, where there is a good 
inn; sleep there, and go to Arras to-morrow.” 

** I must be there to-night.” 

‘That is different. In that case, go back to the inn all 
the same, and hire a second horse. The stable-boy will act 
as your guide across the country. 

He took the road-mender’s advice, turned back, and half 
an hour after passed the same spot at a sharp trot with a 
strong second horse. &lt;A stable lad, who called himself a 
postilion, sat on the shafts of the cart. Still he felt that 
he had lost time, for it was now dark. ‘They entered the 
cross-road, and it soon became frightful; the cart jolted out 
of one rut into another, but he said to the postilion : — 

“Keep on at a trot, and I will give you a double fee.” 

In one of the jolts the whiffle-tree broke. 

“The whiffle-tree is broken, sir,” said the postilion, “ and 


FANTINE 271 


I do not know how to fasten my horse, and the road is very 
bad by night. If you will go back and sleep at Tinques, 
we can get to Arras early to-morrow.” 

He answered, “‘ Have you a piece of rope and a knife? ” 

** Yes, sir.” 

Madeleine cut a branch and made a whiffle-tree; it was a 
further loss of twenty minutes, but they started again at a 
gallop. ‘The plain was dark, and a low black fog was creep- 
ing over the hills. A strong wind, which came from the sea, 
made a noise in every quarter of the horizon like that of 
some one moving furniture. All that he could see had an at- 
titude of terror; for how many things shudder beneath the 
mighty breath of night! ‘The cold pierced him, for he had 
eaten nothing since the previous morning. He vaguely re- 
called his other night-excursion over the great plain of D 
eight years before, and it seemed to him but yesterday. A 
clock struck from a distant steeple, and he asked the lad: — 

*¢ What o’clock is that? ” 

** Seven, sir, and we shall be at Arras by eight, for we have 
only three leagues to go.” 

At this moment he made for the first time this reflection, 
and considered it strange that it had not occurred to him be- 
fore: perhaps all the trouble he was taking was thrown away ; 
he did not even know the hour for the trial, and he might 
at least have asked about that. It was foolish to go on thus, 
without knowing if it would be of any use. ‘Then he made 
some mental calculations, usually the sittings of assize courts 
begin at nine o’clock. ‘This matter would not occupy much 
time ; the theft of the apples would be easily proved, and then 
it would be merely a question of identity, four or five witnesses 
to hear, and little for the counsel to say. He should not ar- 
rive until it was all over. 

The postilion flogged the horses; they crossed the river 
and left Mont St. Eloy behind them; the night was growing 
darker and darker. 





—: 


272 FANTINE 


CHAPTER VI 
‘SISTER SIMPLICITY IS SORELY TRIED 


T this same moment Fantine was joyful. She had 
passed a very bad night, she coughed fearfully, and 
her fever was greater; she had dreams. In the morning, 
when the physician paid his visit, she was raving; he felt 
alarmed, and begged to be called as soon as M. Madeleine ar- 
rived. All the morning she was gloomy, said little, and 
plucked at her sheet, muttering in a low voice, and calculat- 
ing what seemed to be distances. Her eyes were hollow and 
fixed ; they seemed almost extinct, and then, at moments, they 
were re-lit and flashed like stars. It seems as if, on the ap- 
proach of a certain dark hour, the brightness of heaven fills 
those whom the brightness of earth is quitting. Every time 
that Sister Simplicity asked her how she was, she invariably 
answered, * Well, but I should like to see M. Madeleine.” 
A few months previously, when Fantine lost her last 
modesty, her last shame, and her last joy, she was the 
shadow of herself; now she was the ghost of herself. Phys- 
ical suffering had completed the work of moral suffering. 
This creature of five-and-twenty years of age, had a wrinkled 
forehead, sunken cheeks, a pinched nose, a leaden complexion, 
a bony neck, projecting shoulder-blades, thin limbs, an 
earthy skin, and white hairs were mingled with the gold. 
Alas! how illness hastens old age! At midday the physician 
returned, wrote a prescription, inquired whether M. Made- 
leine had been to the infirmary, and shook his head. M. 
Madeleine usually came at three o’clock; and as punctuality 
was kindness, he was punctual. At about half-past two 
Fantine began to grow agitated, and in the next twenty 
minutes asked the nun more than ten times, “ What o’clock 
is it?” 
Three o’clock struck; at the third stroke, Fantine, who 


FANTINE 278 


usually could scarce move in her bed, sat up; she clasped 
her thin yellow hands in a convulsive clasp, and the nun heard 
her give one of those deep sighs, which seem to remove a 
crushing weight. Then Fantine turned and looked at the 
door; but no one entered, and the door did not open. She 
sat thus for a quarter of an hour, with her eyes fixed on 
the door, motionless, and holding her breath. The nun did 
not dare to speak to her, and as the clock struck the quar- 
ter, Fantine fell back on her pillow. She said nothing, and 
again began to pluck at her sheet. The half-hour passed, 
then the hour, and no one came. Every time the clock 
struck Fantine sat up, looked at the door, and then fell 
back again. Her thoughts could be clearly read, but she 
did not say a word, did not complain or blame any one; 
she merely coughed in a sad way. It seemed as if some- 
thing dark were settling down on her. Every now and then 
she smiled. She was livid, and her lips were blue. 

When five o’clock struck, the sister heard her say very 
softly and sweetly: “ As, am going away to-morrow, it was 
wrong of him not to come to-day.” Sister Simplicity herself 
was surprised at M. Madeleine’s delay. Meantime Fantine 
looked up at the canopy of her bed, and seemed trying to 
remember something; all at once she began to sing in a 
voice faint as a sigh. The nun listened; this was Fantine’s 
song : — 


“We will stroll up and down, 
And buy toys in the town. 
The roses are red, the violets are blue; 
I love my love, for violets are blue. 


“Last night the Virgin Mary by my bed 
Stood, wrapped in a mantle gay; 
‘Come, hide beneath my veil, she said, 
‘The baby that you begged of me one day.’—= 
Run to the town, buy linen fair, 
Buy thread; your little thimble wear. 


“We will stroll up and down, 
And buy toys in the town. 


18 


274 FANTINE 


“Sweet Mary maid, beside my bed 
I have a crib adorned with ribbons red. 
God might give me His brightest star, 
I’d love the child you gave me better far. 
And what shall I do with the linen fair? 
Make swaddling clothes for my son and heir. 


“The roses are red, the violets are blue; 
I love my love, for violets are blue. 


“Wash the linen fair in the running stream. 
Spoil it not, soil it not, but sew me aright 
A pretty coat with many a seam, 

Broidered thick with field flowers bright. 
My baby is dead, Lady. What’s to do now? 
A winding sheet soft to bury it, I trow. 


“We will stroll up and down, 
And buy toys in the town. 
The roses are red, the violets blue; 
I love my love, for violets are blue.” 


It was an old cradle-song with which she had in former 
times lulled her little Cosette to sleep, and which had not 
once recurred to her mind during the five years she had 
been parted from her child. She sang with so sad a voice 
and to so soft an air, that it was enough to make any one 
weep, even a nun. ‘The sister, who was accustomed to stern 
facts, felt a tear in her eye. The clock struck six and Fan- 
tine did not seem to hear it; she appeared to pay no heed 
to anything about her. Sister Simplicity sent a servant-girl 
to inquire of the portress of the factory whether M. Made- 
leine had returned and would be at the infirmary soon; the 
girl came back in a few minutes. Fantine was still motion- 
less and apparently engaged with her own thoughts. The 
servant told Sister Simplicity in a very low voice that the 
mayor had set off before six o’clock that morning in a small 
tilbury harnesed to a white horse, cold as it was; that he had 
gone alone, without a driver; that no one knew what direc- 
tion he had taken, for while some said they had seen him 
turn into the Arras road, others declared they had met him 
on the Paris road. He was, as usual, very gentle when he 
went away, and he had merely told his servant that she 
need not expect him that night. 


FANTINE 275 


While the two women were whispering with their backs 
turned to Fantine’s bed, the sister questioning and the ser- 
vant conjecturing, Fantine, with the feverish impetuosity of 
certain organic diseases which blend the free movements of 
health with the frightful emaciation of death, had knelt 
in bed, with her two clenched hands supported by the pil- 
low, and listened with her head thrust between the curtains. 
All at once she cried: — 

“You are talking about M. Madeleine; why do you 
whisper? What is he doing, and why does he not 
come? ” 

Her voice was so loud and hoarse that the two women fan- 
cied it a man’s voice and turned in alarm. 

** Answer!” cried Fantine. 

The servant stammered: — 

‘The portress told me that he could not come to-day.” 

** My child,” said the sister, ‘* be calm and lie down again.” 

Fantine, without changing her attitude, went on in a 
loud voice and with an accent at once imperious and heart- 
rending : — 

‘“¢ He cannot come; why not? You know the reason. You 
were whispering it to each other, and [I insist upon know- 
ing.” 

The servant hastily whispered in the nun’s ear, “ Tell her 
that he is engaged in the town council.” 

Sister Simplicity blushed slightly, for it was a falsehood 
that the servant proposed to her. On the other hand, it 
seemed to her that to tell the patient the truth would 
doubtless be to deal her a terrible blow, and this was serious 
in Fantine’s present condition. The blush lasted but a lit- 
tle while; the sister raised her calm, sad eyes to Fantine’s 
face, and said: — 

‘*'The mayor is gone on a journey.” 

Fantine rose and sat upon her heels, her eyes sparkled, 
and an ineffable joy shone on her sad face. 

“Gone!” she exclaimed. “He has gone to fetch 
Cosette.” 


276 FANTINE 


Then she raised her hands to heaven, her face was ineffably 
bright, and her lips moved; she was praying. 

When she had finished, she said, “ Sister, I will lie down 
again and do everything you wish; I was naughty just now. 
I ask your pardon for speaking so loud, for I know that 
is wrong, dear sister; but, you see, I am so happy. God 
is good, and M. Madeleine is good; only think, he has gone 
to Montfermeil to fetch my little Cosette.” 

She lay down again, helped the nun to smooth her pillow, 
and kissed a little silver cross she wore on her neck, and 
which Sister Simplicity had given her. 

“My child,” said the sister, “try to sleep now, and do 
not talk any more.” Fantine took the sister’s hand in her 
moist palms, and the latter was pained to fell that damp 
sweat. 

“ He started this morning for Paris, and indeed he need 
not go through Paris; for Montfermeil is a little to the left 
before you get there. You remember how he said to me 
yesterday when I asked him about Cosette, ‘ Soon, soon’ ? 
He wants to give me a surprise; for, do you know, he made 
me sign a letter to get her back from the Thénardiers. 
They will have nothing to say, will they? ‘They cannot re- 
fuse to give up Cosette, can they? for they are paid; the 
authorities would not allow a child to be kept, now that there 
is nothing owing. Sister, do not make me signs that I must 
not speak, for I am extremely happy. I am getting on very 
well; I feel no pain at all. I shall see Cosette again, and 
I even feel very hungry. It is nearly five years since I saw 
her; you cannot imagine how fond one gets of children,— 
and then she must be so pretty. She has such pretty pink 
fingers, and she will have beautiful hands. She had the 
most ridiculous little hands, when she was a year old; like 
that! She must be a great girl now, for she is going on 
for seven. I call her Cosette, but her real name is Euphrasie. 
This morning I was looking at the dust on the mantelpiece, 
and I had a notion that I should soon see Cosette again. 
Good Lord! how wrong it is to be so many years without 


FANTINE 277 


seeing your child! We ought to reflect that life is not 
eternal. Oh, how kind it is of the mayor to go! Is it 
true that it is so cold? I hope he took his cloak. He will 
be here again to-morrow, will he not? and we will make a 
holiday of it. To-morrow morning, sister, you must remind 
me to put on my little cap with the lace border. Montfer- 
meil is a great distance, I came from there te this town on 
foot, and it took me a long time; but the stage-coaches 
travel so quickly! He will be here to-morrow with Cosette. 
How far is it to Montfermeil? ” 

The sister who had no notion of distances, cre: ** Oh, 
I believe he can be here to-morrow.” 

* ‘To-morrow! to-morrow!’ said Fantine; “I shall see 
Cosette to-morrow, dear sister! I am not ill now ; I feel 
wild; I would dance if you asked me.’ 

Any one who had seen her a nore of an hour before 
would not have understood it; she was now quite flushed, 
she spoke with an eager, natural voice, and her whole face 
was one smile. At times she laughed and talked to herself 
in a low voice. &lt;A mother’s ey is almost childish. 

“S'Well!” said the nun, 7 yen are happy now. So obey 
me and do not talk any more.’ 

Fantine laid her head on the pillow, and said in a low 
voice, * Yes, lie down, behave yourself, for you are going 
to have your child. Sister Simplicity is right; everybody 
here is right.” 

And then without stirring, without moving her head, she 
began to look about with wide open eyes and a joyous air, 
and said nothing more. ‘The sister closed the curtains, hop- 
ing she would fall off to sleep. The physician came be- 
tween seven and eight o’clock. Hearing no sound, he fan- 
cied Fantine asleep. He entered softly and walked up to 
the bed on tiptoe. He opened the curtains, and by the light 
of the night lamp, saw Fantine’s large calm eyes fixed on 
him. She said to him: — 

‘Oh, sir, my child will be allowed to sleep in a little cot 
by my bedside, will she not?” 


278 FANTINE 


The physician fancied she was delirious. She added: 

“ Only look; there is exactly room.” 

The physician took Sister Simplicity aside, and she ex- 
plained the matter to him; that M. Madeleine was absent 
for a day or two, and being in doubt, they had not thought 
it right to undeceive the patient, who fancied that he had 
gone to Montfermeil, and she might possibly be in the right. 
The physician approved, and returned to Fantine’s bed. She 
said to him: — 

“In the morning, when the little puss wakes up, I will 
say good-day to her; and at night, I, who do not sleep, 
will listen to her sleeping. Her gentle little breathing will 
do me good.” 

“Give me your hand,” said the physician. 

“Oh, yes; you do not know that I am cured. Cosette 
comes to-morrow.” 

The physician was surprised to find her better; the op- 
pression was slighter, her pulse had gained strength, and 
a sort of new life animated the poor exhausted girl. 

“ Doctor,” she continued, “ did the sister tell you that M. 
Madeleine had gone to fetch the midget?” 

The physician recommended silence, and that all painful 
emotion should be avoided. He prescribed a dose of qui- 
nine, and if the fever returned in the night, a sedative; and 
as he went away he said to the sister: “‘ She is better. If 
the mayor were to come with the child to-morrow, who knows? 
There are such astounding crises. Great joy has been 
‘known to check disease; and though hers is an organic 
malady, and in an advanced stage, it is all a mystery. We 
might perchance save her.” 


ie FANTINE 279 


CHAPTER VII 


THE TRAVELLER ON HIS ARRIVAL TAKES PRECAUTIONS 
FOR HIS RETURN 


T was nearly eight in the evening when the cart which he 
left on the road drove under the archway of the post- 
house at Arras. ‘The man whom we have followed up to this 
moment got out, discharged the second horse, and himself 
led the white pony to the stables; then he pushed open the 
door of a billiard-room on the ground-floor, sat down, and 
rested his elbows on the table. He had taken fourteen hours 
for a journey for which he had allowed six. He did him- 
self the justice to admit that it was no fault of his, but in 
his heart he was not sorry. The landlady came in. 

*¢ Will you sleep here, sir? ” 

He shook his head. 

“The hostler says that your horse is extremely tired.” 

Here he broke his silence. 

*¢ Will it not be able to start again to-morrow morning? ” 

“Oh, dear, no, sir; it requires at least two days’ rest.” 

“Is not the post-office in this house? ” 

“Yes, sir.” 

The landlady led him to the office, where he showed his 
passport, and inquired whether he could return to M 
the same night by the mail-coach. Only one seat, the seat 
beside the mail-carrier, was vacant; he took it, and paid for 
it. ‘“ Do not fail, sir,”’ said the clerk, “‘ to be here to start 
at one o’clock precisely.” 

This done, he left the hotel, and began to walk the streets. 
He was not acquainted with Arras, the streets were dark, 
and he walked about haphazard, but he seemed obstinately 
determined ont to ask his way of passers-by. He crosscd 
the little river Crinchon, and found himself in a labyrinth 





280 FAN TINE 


of narrow lanes, in which he lost his way. A man came to- 
ward him with a lantern, whom, after some hesitation, he 
resolved to address, though not till he had looked before and 
behind him, as if afraid lest anybody should overhear the 
question he was about to ask. 

“ Will you be kind enough to tell me the way to the 
court-house, sir? ” he said. 

“You do not belong to the town, sir?” replied the man, 
who was rather elderly; “ well, follow me. I am going in 
the direction of the court-house,— that is to say, of the 
Town Hall; for the court-house is under repair just now, 
and the court is sitting temporarily at the Town Hall.” 

‘Are the assizes held there?” he asked. 

“Of course, sir; you must know that what is now the 
Town Hall was the bishop’s palace before the Revolution. 
Monsieur de Conzlé, who was bishop in 792, built a large hall 
there, and the court meets in this hall.” 

On the way the man said to him: — 

“If you wish to witness a trial, you are rather late, for 
the court usually closes at six o’clock.” 

However, when they reached the great square the old man 
pointed out four lofty lighted windows in a vast, gloomy 
building. 

‘On my word, sir,” he said, “ you have come in time, 
and are in luck’s way. Do you see those four windows? 
They belong to the assize courts. As there are lights, it 
is not closed yet; there must have been a long trial, and 
they are having an evening session. Are you interested in 
the trial? Is it a criminal case, or are you a witness? ” 

He answered : — 

“TI have not come on business; I only wish to speak to 
one of the lawyers.” 

‘““'That is another matter. ‘That is the door, sir, where 
the sentry stands, and you have only to go up the grand 
staircase.” 

He followed the old man’s instructions, and a few min- 
utes later was in a large hall, in which there were a good 


FANTINE 281 


many people, and groups of lawyers in their gowns stood 
gossiping together. 

It is always painful to see these assemblies of men dressed 
in black, conversing in low voices on the threshold of a 
court of justice. It is rare to find charity and pity in 
their remarks, for they generally express sentences settled 
before trial. All such groups appear to the thoughtful 
observer so many gloomy hives, in which buzzing minds 
build in community all sorts of dark edifices. This hall, 
which was large, and lighted by one lamp only, served as 
a waiting-room; folding doors, at this moment closed, 
separated it from the chamber in which the assizes were held. 
It was so dark that he did not hesitate to address the first 
barrister he came across. 

‘“* How is it going, sir?” he said. 

‘Tt is over.” 

“ Over!”? The word was repeated in such a tone that 
the barrister turned round. 

“I beg your pardon, sir; perhaps you are a relative?” 

“No, I know no one here. Was a verdict of guilty 
brought in?” 

*“Of course; it could not possibly be otherwise.” 

** Penal servitude? ” 

“For life.” 

He continued in a voice so faint that it was scarcely 
audible : — 

“Then the identity was proved? ” 

“What identity? ” the barrister retorted. ‘“ Nothing of 
the sort was required. The affair was simple,— the woman 
had killed her child; infanticide was proved, the jury recom- 
mended her to mercy, and she was sentenced to imprison- 
ment for life.” 

“Tt was a woman, then? ” 

“Why, of course; a girl of the name of Limosin. To 
whom do you refer, pray? ” 

“ Nobody; but if the trial is over, how is it that the 
court is still lighted? ” 


282 FANTINE 


“Tt is for the other trial which began about two hours 
back.” 

“What other trial? ” 

‘Oh, that is a clear case too; it is a beggar, a galley- 
slave, who has been robbing. I forget his name, but he 
has a regular bandit’s face, on the strength of which I would 
send him to the galleys if for nothing else.” 

“Ts there any way to get into the court, sir?” 

“TI think not, for it is very full. Still, the trial is sus- 
pended, and some persons have gone out. When the court 
resumes, you can try.” 

“Which is the way in?” 

‘* By that large door.” 

The barrister left him; in a few minutes he had experi- 
enced every possible emotion almost simultaneously, and con- 
fusedly blended. The words of this indifferent person had 
by turns pierced his heart lke needles of ice and like red- 
hot sword-blades. When he found that the trial was not 
over, he breathed again; but he could not have told whether 
what he felt were satisfaction or pain. He walked up to sev- 
eral groups and listened to what they were saying. As the 
docket was very heavy, the judge had selected for this day 
two simple and short cases. ‘They had begun with the in- 
fanticide, and were now engaged with the convict, the “ old 
offender.” ‘This man had stolen apples. This did not seem 
clearly proved, but it was proved that he had already been 
at the Toulon galleys. It was this that made his case look 
badly. His examination and the depositions of the witnesses 
were over; but there were still the speech for the defence and 
the summing up, and hence it would not be over till mid- 
night. ‘The man would probably be condemned, for the 
attorney-general was sharp, and seldom ‘“ missed” his man; 
he was a witty fellow who wrote verses. An usher stood at 
the door leading into the court-room, and he asked this 
usher : — 

Will this door be opened soon? ” 

“Tt will not be opened,” said the usher. 


FANTINE 283 


Will it not be opened when the court resumes its sit- 
ting? ” 

“The hearing has begun,” replied the usher, “ but the 
door will not be opened.” 

“Why not?” 

** Because the hall is full.” 

** What! is there no room? ” 

‘* Not for a soul more. ‘The door is closed, and no one 
can go in.” 

The usher added after a pause: * There are certainly two 
or three seats behind the judge, but he only admits public 
officials to them.” 

So saying, the usher turned his back on him. He with- 
drew with hanging head, crossed the waiting-room, and went 
slowly downstairs, hesitating at every step. He was prob- 
ably holding counsel with himself; the violent struggle which 
had been going on within him since the previous day was 
not over, and every moment he entered upon some new phase. 
On reaching the landing, he leaned against the balusters 
and folded his arms; but all at once he took out his pocket- 
book, tore a leaf from it, and wrote in pencil upon it by the 
light of the street lamp, “ M. Madeleine, Mayor of M. 
sur M.;” then he hurried up the stairs, cleft the crowd, 
walked up to the usher, handed him the paper, and said 
with an air of authority, “ Hand this to the judge.” The 
usher took the paper, glanced at it, and obeyed. 


CHAPTER VIII 


INSIDE THE COURT 





ITHOUT suspecting the fact, the mayor of M 
enjoyed a certain celebrity. For seven years his 
reputation for virtue had filled the whole of Lower Boulon- 
nais; it had gradually crossed the border line into two or 


284 FANTINE 


three adjoining departments. In addition to the consider- 
able service which he had done the town, by restoring the 
trade in jet beads, there was not one of the one hundred and 
forty parishes in the bailiwick of M which was not 
indebted to him for some kindness. He had even assisted 
and promoted, when necessary, the trades of other depart- 
ments; thus he had supported, with his credit and funds, 
the linen factory at Boulogne, the cotton industry at Nivers, 
and the manufacture of canvas by water-power at Bourbus 
sur Cauche. The rame of M. Madeleine was everywhere 
pronounced with veneration. Arras and Douai envied the 
fortunate little town of M its mayor. The councillor 
of the royal court of Douai, who presided at the present 
Arras assizes, like every one else, was acquainted with this 
deeply and universally honoured name. When the usher 
discreetly opened the door of the robing-room, leaned over 
the judge’s chair, and. handed him the paper, adding, “ This 
gentleman wishes to hear the trial,” the judge, with a quick, 
deferential movement, took up a pen, wrote a few words at 
the foot of the paper, and returned it to the usher, saying, 
“ Show him in.” 

The unhappy man whose history we are recording, had 
remained near the door of the court at the same spot and 
in the same attitude as when the usher left him. He heard 
through his revery some one say, “ Will you do me the 
honour to follow me, sir?” It was the same usher who 
had turned his back on him just before, and who now bowed 
to the ground. At the same time the usher handed him the 
paper; he unfolded it, and as he happened to be near the 
lamp, he was able to read, “‘ The judge presents his respects 
to M. Madeleine.” He crumpled the paper in his hand, 
as if the words had a strange and bitter after-taste. He 
followed the usher, and a few minutes later found himself 
alone in a severe-looking wainscoted room, lighted by two 
wax candles standing on a green-baize-covered table. The 
last words of the usher, who had just left him, still rang in 
his ears: “‘ You are in the council chamber; you have only 








FANTINE 285 


to turn the handle of that door, and you will find yourself 
in court behind the judge’s chair.”» These words mingled 
in his thoughts with a confused recollection of narrow pas- 
sages and dark staircases through which he had just passed. 
The usher left him alone; the supreme moment had arrived. 
He tried to collect himself, but could not; for it is especially 
at those hours when men have most need of thought that all 
threads are broken in the brain. He was on the very spot 
where judges deliberate and pass sentence. He gazed with 
stupid tranquillity at this peaceful and yet fearful room, 
in which so many existences had been broken, where his name 
would ere long echo, and which his destiny was at this mo- 
ment traversing. He looked at the walls and then at him- 
self, astonished that it was this room and that it was he. 
He had not eaten for more than twenty-four hours; he was 
tired by the shaking of the cart, but he did not feel it. It 
seemed to him that he did not feel anything. He walked 
up to a black frame hanging on the wall which contained 
under glass an old autograph letter of Jean Nicolas Pache, 
mayor of Paris and minister, dated, doubtless in error, June 
9, of the year II., in which Pache forwarded a list of the 
ministers and deputies under arrest. Any who had seen 
him at that moment would doubtless have imagined that this 
letter struck him as very curious, for he did not take his 
eyes from it, and read it two or three times; but he read 
it without paying attention, and unconsciously. He was 
thinking of Fantine and Cosette. 

While thinking, he turned, and his eyes fell upon the 
brass handle of the door that separated him from the assize 
court. He had almost forgotten this door; but his eye, at 
first calm, rested on it, then became wild and fixed, and 
gradually filled with terror. Drops of perspiration stood 
out between his hair, and trickled down his temples. At one 
moment he made, with a sort of authority blended with re- 
bellion, that indescribable gesture which signifies and says 
so well — By heaven, who forces me?” ‘Then he turned 


hurriedly, saw before him the door by which he had entered, 


286 FANTINE 


walked up to it, opened it, and went out. He was no longer 
in that room, but in a passage, a long, narrow passage, cut 
up by steps and wickets, making all sorts of turns, lit up 
here and there by lamps resembling sick persons’ night-lights, 
— the passage by which he had come. He breathed, he 
listened; not a sound behind him, not a sound before him, 
and he began to fly as if he were pursued. When he had 
passed several turnings, he listened again; there were still 
the same silence and gloom around him. He gasped, stag- 
gered, and leaned against the wall; the stone was cold, the 
perspiration was frozen on his forehead, and he drew him- 
self up with a shudder. Then, standing there alone, 
trembling from cold, and perhaps from something else, he 
thought. He had thought all night, he had thought all 
day; but he heard within him only a voice that said, 
“* Alas!” 

A quarter of an hour passed thus; at length he bowed 
his head, sighed in agony, let his arms drop, and turned 
back. He walked slowly, and as if stunned; he looked as 
if he had been caught in the act of flight and were being 
brought back. He entered the robing-room, and the first 
thing he saw was the handle of the door. This handle, 
which was round and made of polished brass, shone 
like a terrific star; he looked at it as a sheep might look 
at the eye of a tiger. He could not take his eyes from it, 
and from time to time he advanced a step toward the door. 
Had he listened he would have heard, like a confused mur- 
mur, the noise in the adjoining court; but he did not listen, 
and did not hear. All at once, and without knowing how, 
he found himself close to the door; he convulsively seized 
the handle, and the door opened. He was in the assize court. 


FANTINE 287 


CHAPTER IX 
THE TRIAL 


E advanced a step, closed the door mechanically after 
him, and gazed at the scene before him. It was a 
large hall, dimly lighted, at one moment full of sounds, and 
at another of silence, in which all the machinery of a criminal 
trial was displayed, with its paltry and lugubrious gravity, 
in the midst of a crowd. At one end of the hall, the one 
where he was, judges with a vacant look, in shabby gowns, 
biting their nails or-shutting their eyes; barristers in all 
sorts of attitudes; soldiers with hard, honest faces; old 
stained wainscoting, a dirty ceiling; tables covered with 
baize, which was rather yellow than green; doors blackened 
by hands; pot-house sconces, which produced more smoke 
than light, hanging from nails driven into the wall; upon 
the tables, candles in brass candlesticks,— all was obscurity, 
ugliness, and sadness. But yet all this produced an austere 
and august impression; for the grand human thing called 
law and the great divine thing called justice, were visible 
therein. 

No one in this crowd paid any attention to him, for all 
eyes converged on a single point,— a wooden bench placed 
against a little door, along the wall to the left of the judge. 
On this bench, which was illumined by several candles, sat 
a man between two policemen. This man was the man. He 
did not seek him, he saw him; his eyes went there naturally, 
as if they had known before-hand where that figure was. 
He fancied he saw himself ; aged, not absolutely alike in face, 
but exactly similar in attitude and appearance, with his 
bristling hair, with his savage restless eyes, and his blouse, 
just as he was on the day when he entered D » full of 
hatred, and concealing in his mind that hideous mass of 
frightful thoughts which he had spent nineteen years in col- 





288 FANTINE 


lecting on the floor of the galleys. He said to himself with 
a shudder, “ Great God, shall I again become like that? ” 
This being appeared at least sixty years of age; he looked 
rough, stupid, and startled. At the sound of the door, 
people made way for the new-comer; the judge turned his 
head, and guessing that the gentleman who had just en- 
tered was the mayor of M » he bowed to him. The at- 
torney-general, who had seen M. Madeleine at : 
whither his duties had more than once called him, recog- 
nized him, and also bowed. He scarcely noticed it, for he 
was under a sort of hallucination; he was looking at a judge, 
a clerk, policemen, a crowd of cruelly curious faces; he had 
seen all this once before, seven-and-twenty years ago. These 
mournful things he encountered again; they were there, mov- 
ing, existing. It was no longer an effort of his memory, a 
mirage of his mind; they were real police, real judges, a 
real crowd, and real men of flesh and blood. He saw all 
the monstrous aspects of his past re-appear and live again 
around him, with all the terror that reality possesses. All 
this yawned before him; he felt terrified, closed his eyes, 
and exclaimed in his inner-most soul, ** Never!” And by a 
tragic sport of fate which made all his ideas waver and drove 
him nearly mad, it was another self who was there. Every- 
body called this man who was being tried, Jean Valjean. 
Before him was an unheard-of vision,— a representation of 
the most horrible moment of his life played by his spectral 
image. All was there,—it was the same machinery, the 
same hour of the night, almost the same faces of judges, 
soldiers, and spectators. The only difference was that there 
was a crucifix over the judge’s head, which had been removed 
from the courts at the time of his condemnation. When he 
was tried, God was absent. ‘There was a chair behind him, 
into which he fell, terrified at the idea that people might see 
him. When he was seated, he took advantage of a pile of 
pasteboard cases on the judge’s desk to hide his face from 
the spectators. He could now see without being seen; he 
fully regained the sense of reality, and gradually recovered. 








FANTINE 289 


He attained that phase of calmness in which a man can 
listen. Monsieur Bamatabois was serving on the jury. He 
looked for Javert, but could not see him, for the witnesses’ 
bench was hidden by the clerk’s table; and then, as we have 
said, the court was dimly lighted. 

When he came in, the counsel for the defence was ending 
his speech. The attention of all was excited to the high- 
est pitch; for three hours they had seen a man, a stranger, 
a miserable being, profoundly stupid or profoundly clever, 
gradually crushed beneath the weight of a fatal likeness. 
This man, as we already know, was a vagabond found in a 
field, carrying a branch covered with ripe apples, which had 
been broken off a tree in a neighbouring orchard. Who was 
this man? Inquiries had been made, and witnesses heard. 
They were unanimous; and light had been thrown by every 
incident of the trial. The prosecutor said: *‘ We have got 
hold not only of a fruit-stealer, a marauder, but we have in 
our grasp a bandit, a man who has broken his ban, an ex- 
convict, a most dangerous villain, a malefactor of the name 
of Jean Valjean, whom justice has long sought, and who, 
eight years ago, on leaving Toulon, committed highway 
robbery with violence on a Savoyard lad, called Little Ger- 
vais,— a crime provided for by Article 383 of the penal 
code, for which we intend to prosecute him hereafter, when 
his identity has been formally established. He has just com- 
mitted a fresh robbery, and that makes a second offence. 
Find him guilty of the new offence, and he will be tried at 
a later date for the old one.”” ‘The prisoner seemed highly 
amazed at this charge and the unanimity of the witnesses ; 
he made gestures and signs of denial, or else stared at the 
ceiling. He spoke with difficulty, answered with embarrass- 
ment, but from head to foot his whole person denied. He 
was like an idiot in the presence of all those intellects ranged 
in battle-array round him, and like a stranger in the midst 
of this society which seized him. Still, a most menacing 
future was hanging over him. The probability of his be- 
ing J yes Valjean increased with each moment; and the en- 


290 FANTINE 


tire crowd regarded with greater anxiety than himself the 
doom which was gradually settling down on him. There 
was even a possibility of a death-penalty, should the iden- 
tity be proved, and should he be hereafter found guilty of 
the attack on Little Gervais. Who was this man? What 
was the nature of his apathy? Was it imbecility or cun- 
ning? Did he understand too much, or did he understand 
nothing at all? These questions divided the crowd, and the 
jury seemed to share their confusion. ‘There was something 
terrific and something puzzling in this case; the drama was 
not only gloomy, but it was obscure. 

The counsel for the defence had argued rather cleverly 
in that provincial language which for a long time consti- 
tuted the eloquence of the bar, and which all barristers for- 
merly employed, not only at Paris, but at Romorantin or 
Montbrison as well, and which at the present day having 
become classic, is only spoken by public prosecutors, whom 
its serious sonorousness and majestic movement suit. It is 
the language in which a husband is called a “ consort;” a 
wife, a “spouse;” Paris, “the centre of art and civiliza- 
tion; ” the king, the “ monarch; ” the bishop, a “ holy pon- 
tiff; the public prosecutor, the ‘ eloquent interpreter of 
the majesty of the law; “ the pleadings, “‘ the accents which 
we have just heard;” the age of Louis XIV., “the great 
age;”’ a theatre, the “ temple of Melpomene;” the reigning 
family, the “ august blood of our kings; ” a concert, “‘ a mu- 
sical solemnity ; ” the general commanding in the department, 
the “‘ illustrious warrior who,” etc. ; the pupils of the seminary, 
“those tender Levites;” the mistakes imputed to the news- 
papers, ‘“‘the imposture which distils its venom in the col- 
umns of these organs,” etc. The barrister had, consequently, 
begun by explaining away the robbery of the apples,— 
rather a difficult thing to do in this grand style; but 
Bossuet himself was obliged to allude to a fowl in the midst 
of a funeral oration, and got out of the difficulty with 
glory. The barrister had established the fact that the steal- 
ing of the apples was not actually proved. His client, 


FANTINE 291 


whon, in his quality of counsel, he persistently called Champ- 
mathieu, had not been seen by any one scaling a wall or 
breaking the branch. He had been arrested with the branch 
(which the lawyer preferred to call a “ bough”) in his 
possession; but he declared that he found ‘it lying on the 
ground and picked it up. Where was the proof of the con- 
trary? This branch had been broken off and then thrown 
away by the frightened robber, for doubtless there was one; 
but where was the evidence that this Champmathieu was a rob- 
ber? Only one thing,— his being an ex-convict. The coun- 
sel did not deny that this fact seemed to be, unluckily, proved. 
The prisoner had lived at Faverolles; he had been a tree- 
pruner; the name of Champmathieu might possibly be de- 
rived from Jean Mathieu; lastly, four witnesses unhesi- 
tatingly recognized Champmathieu as the galley-slave, Jean 
Valjean. To these coincidences, to this testimony, the coun- 
sel could only oppose his client’s denial, which was certainly 
that of an interested party; but, even supposing that he was 
the convict Jean Mathieu, did that prove that he was the 
apple-stealer? It was a presumption at the most, but not 
a proof. The accused, it was true,— and his counsel was 
obliged “in good faith” to allow it,— had adopted a bad 
system of defence; he insisted on denying everything,— not 
merely the robbery, but his character as convict. A confes- 
sion of this latter point would doubtless have been better, 
and would have gained him the indulgence of his judges. 
The counsel had advised him to do this; but the prisoner had 
obstinately refused, probably in the belief that he would save 
everything by confessing nothing. This was wrong; but 
should not his scanty intellect be taken into consideration? 
This man was visibly stupid; long suffering at the galleys, 
long wretchedness out of them, had brutalized him, etc.; his 
defence was bad, but was that a reason to find him guilty? 
As for the offence against Little Gervais, the counsel need 
not discuss that, as it was not included in the indictment. 
The counsel wound up by imploring the jury and the court, 
if the identity of Jean Valjean appeared to them proven, 


292 FANTINE 


to punish him as a criminal who had broken his ban, and 
not to apply the fearful chastisement which falls on a con- 
vict guilty of a second offence. 

The attorney-general replied. He was violent and flowery, 
as attorney-generals usually are. He congratulated the 
counsel for the defence on his “ fairness,” and cleverly took 
advantage of it; he attacked the prisoner through all the 
concessions which his counsel had made. His counsel seemed 
to admit that the prisoner was Jean Valjean, and he took 
note of this. ‘Then this man was Jean Valjean. This was 
so much gained for the prosecution, and could not be con- 
tested ; and here, reverting cleverly to the sources and causes 
of criminality, the attorney-general thundered against the 
immorality of the romantic school, at that time in its dawn 
under the name of the “ Satanic school,” given it by the 
critics of the “ Quotidienne ”? and the “ Oriflamme;” and he 
attributed not without some show of reason, the crime of 
Champmathieu, or, to speak more correctly, of Jean Valjean, 
to this corrupt literature. These reflections exhausted, he 
passed to Jean Valjean himself. Who was this Jean Val- 
jean? Here came a description of Jean Valjean, a monster 
in human form, etc. The model of this sort of description 
will be found in the story of Theraménes, which is not use- 
ful to tragedy but daily renders great service to judicial 
eloquence. ‘The audience and the jury “ shuddered,” and 
when the description ended, the attorney-general went on 
with an oratorical outburst intended to excite to the highest 
pitch the enthusiasm of the country papers which would 
appear next morning. ‘ And it is such a man, etc., a vaga- 
bond, a beggar, having no visible means of support, etc., 
accustomed throughout his past life to culpable actions, and 
not improved by confinement in the galleys, as is shown by 
the crime committed on Little Gervais, etc.,— it is such a 
man, who, found on the high-road with the proof of rob- 
bery in his hand, and a few paces from the wall he had 
climbed, denies the fact, the robbery, denies everything, even 
to his name and his identity. In addition to a hundred 


_— 
oN ee ee 


FANTINE 293 


proofs to which we will not revert, four witnesses recognize 
him,— Javert, the upright inspector of police, and three of 
his old comrades in ignominy, the convicts Brevet, Chenildieu, 
and Cochepaille. And what does he oppose to this crush- 
ing unanimity? His denial. What hardness of heart! 
But you will do justice, gentlemen of the jury,” etc. 

While the attorney-general was speaking, the prisoner 
listened with open mouth, and with a sort of amazement, in 
which there was certainly some admiration. He was evidently 
surprised that a man could speak like this. From time to 
time, at the most energetic apostrophes, when eloquence, un- 
able to restrain itself, overflowed in a flux of branding 
epithets, and enveloped the prisoner in a tempest, he slowly 
moved his head from right to left, and from left to right, in 
the mute and melancholy protest with which he had contented 
himself ever since the beginning of the trial. Twice or thrice 
the spectators standing nearest to him heard him say in a 
low voice: “ All this comes from not asking Monsieur 
Baloup.” ‘The attorney-general drew the attention of the 
jury to this dull attitude, which was evidently intentional, 
and which denoted, not imbecility, but craft, cunning, and 
the habit of deceiving justice, and which brought out in its 
true light the ‘‘ profound perverseness” of this man. He 
concluded by reserving the affair of Little Gervais, and by 
demanding a severe sentence. ‘The counsel for the defence 
rose, began by complimenting the attorney-general on his 
“admirable speech,” and then replied as well as he could, 
but feebly; it was plain that the ground was giving way 
under him. | 


294 FAN TINE 


CHAPTER X 
THE SYSTEM OF DENIALS 


HE moment to close the trial had arrived. ‘The judge 
ordered the prisoner to stand, and put the usual ques- 
tion: “ Have you anything to say in your defence?” ‘The 
man, who was rolling his hideous cap in his hands, made no 
reply, and the judge repeated his question. This time the 
man heard, and seemed to understand. He moved like a 
person who is waking, looked around him at the audience, 
the police, his counsel, the jury, and the court, laid his 
monstrous fist on the wood-work in front of his bench, looked 
again, and, suddenly fixing his eyes on the attorney-gen- 
eral began to speak. It was an eruption; from the way in 
which the words escaped from his lips, incoherent, impetuous, 
and pell-mell, it seemed as if they were all striving to get 
out at once. He said: — 

“‘T have this to say. That I was a wheelwright in Paris, 
and worked for Master Baloup. It is a hard trade, is a 
wheelwright’s. You always work in the open air, in yards, 
under sheds when you have a good master, but never in a 
room, because you want space, you see. In winter you are 
so cold that you swing your arms to warm yourself, but the 
masters don’t like that, for they say it wastes time. Han- 
dling iron when there is ice between the paving-stones, is 
rough work; it soon uses aman up. You are old when quite 
young, in that trade. At forty, a man is done for. I was 
fifty-three, and had hard lines of it; and then the workmen 
are so cruel. When a man is not so young as he was, they 
call him nothing but old bird, old brute! I only earned 
thirty sous a day; for the masters took advantage of my 
age and paid me as little as they could. With that I had 
my daughter, who was a washerwoman in the river. She 
earned a little too; and the pair of us managed to live. She 


or 





——— OO eeeeeee—_3OU_eeee 


FANTINE 295 


was bothered too. All day in a tub up to your waist, in 
the snow and rain, and with the wind that cuts your face. 
When it freezes it is all the same, for you must wash. There 
are persons who have not much linen, and expect it home. 
If a woman did not wash, she would lose her customers. 
The planks are badly joined, and water drops on you every- 
where. Her petticoats were wet through, over and under. 
That penetrates. She also worked at the wash-house of the 
Enfants Rouges, where the water is got from taps. You 
are not in the tub there; you wash at the tap before you, 
and rinse in the basin behind you. As it is shut up, you 
don’t feel so cold; but there is the steaming hot water which 
ruins the sight. She came home at seven in the evening, 
and went to bed directly, for she was so tired. Her hus- 
band used to beat her. He is dead. We were not very 
happy. She was a good girl, who did not go to balls, and 
was very quiet. I remember one Shrove Tuesday on which 
she went to bed at eight o’clock. I am telling the truth. 
You need only inquire. Oh, yes, inquire! what an ass I am. 
Paris is a gulf. Who is there that knows Father Champma- 
thieu? and yet, I tell you, Monsieur Baloup does. Ask him. 
After all, I do not know what you want of me.” 

The man ceased speaking, and remained standing. 

He had said all this in a loud, quick, hoarse, hard voice, 
with a sort of angry and savage simplicity. Once he broke 
off to bow to somebody in the crowd. The affirmations which 
he seemed to throw out haphazard came from him in gasps, 
and he accompanied each by the gesture of a man chopping 
wood. When he had finished, his hearers burst into a laugh. 
He stared at the people, and seeing they were laughing, and 
understanding nothing, he began to laugh himself. That in- 
jured him. The judge, a grave, kindly man, spoke. He re- 
minded the “gentlemen of the jury” that “ Monsieur 
Baloup, formerly a master wheelwright, for whom the pris- 
oner declared that he had worked, was a bankrupt, and had 
not been found when an attempt was made to serve him with 
a subpena.” Then, turning to the prisoner, he requested him 


296 FANTINE 


to listen to what he was about to say, and added: ‘“ You 
are in a situation which should cause you to reflect. The 
heaviest charges rest upon you, and may entail capital punish- 
ment. Prisoner, I ask you for the last time to explain your- 
self clearly on the two following facts: In the first place, 
did you,— yes or no,— climb the wall, break a branch, and 
steal apples; that is to say, break and enter? Secondly,— 
yes or no,— are you the discharged convict, Jean Valjean? ” 

The prisoner nodded his head with a confident air, like a 
man who understands and knows what answer he is going to 
make. He opened his mouth, turned to the judge, and 
said : — 

“In the first place —” 

Then he looked at his cap, looked at the ceilmg, and held 
his tongue. 

‘‘ Prisoner,” said the attorney-general, in a stern voice, 
‘Spay attention. You make no answer to the questions that 
are asked you, and your confusion condemns you. It is evi- 
dent that your name is not Champmathieu, but Jean Valjean, 
at first concealed under the name of Jean Mathieu, your 
mother’s name; that you went to Auvergne; that your birth- 
place is Faverolles, where you were a pruner. It is evident 
that you stole ripe apples by clambering over a wall, and the 
gentlemen of the jury will form their own opinion.” 

The prisoner had sat down again, but he hurriedly rose 
when the attorney-general finished, and exclaimed: 

“You are a bad man! This is what I wanted to say, 
but I could not think of it at first. I have stolen nothing. 
I am a man who does not eat every day. I was coming from 
Ailly, and walking after an inundation, which had made the 
whole country yellow. The very ponds had overflowed, and 
nothing grew in the sand except a few little blades of grass 
by the roadside. I found a branch with apples lying on the 
ground, and picked it up, little thinking it would bring me 
into trouble. I have been in prison, and been bullied for 
three months; and more than that I cannot say. People talk 
against me; I don’t know why. ‘They say to me, ‘ Answer.’ 


FANTINE 297 


The policeman, who is a good-hearted fellow, nudges me with 
his elbow, and says, ‘Why don’t you answer?’ I cannot 
explain myself, for I am no scholar, but only a poor man; 
and you are wrong not to see it. I have not stolen; 
I have only picked up things lying on the ground. 
You talk about Jean Valjean and Jean Mathieu. I do not 
know those persons; they are country folk. I used to work 
for Monsieur Baloup, Boulevard de l’Hépital; and my name 
is Champmathieu. You are a very clever fellow to tell me 
where I was born, for I don’t know. It is not everybody 
who has a house to come into the world in; that would be 
too comfortable. I believe that my father and mother were 
persons who went about the roads, but I do not know it, 
after all. When I was a boy I was called little one, and 
now I am called old fellow. Those are my Christian names, 
and you can take them as you please. I have been in 
Auvergne. I have been at Faverolles. Well, may not a 
man have been at those two places without having been te 
the galleys? I tell you that I have not stolen, and that my 
name is Champmathieu. I worked for M. Baloup, and was a 
householder. You vex me with your nonsense. Why is 
everybody so spiteful against me? ” 

The attorney-general who had remained standing, here Sie 
dressed the judge: — 

“In the presence of these confused but very clear denials 
on the part of the prisoner, who would like to pass for an 
idiot, but who, we warn him, will not succeed, we request that 
it may please you, sir, and the court to recall the prisoners 
Brevet, Cochepaille, and Chenildieu, and Police Inspector 
Javert, and to examine them again as to the identity of the 
prisoner with Jean Valjean.” 

““I must remind you,” said the judge, “that Inspector 
Javert, having been recalled to his duties in a neighbouring 
town, left the court and the town immediately after giving 
his evidence. We authorized him to do so, with the consent 
of the attorney-general and the counsel for the defence.”’ 

“ Perfectly correct, sir,” continued the attorney-general. 


298 FANTINE 


“In the absence of Inspector Javert, I believe it my duty to 
remind the gentlemen of the jury of the statement which he 
made here a few hours ago. Javert is a worthy man, who 
honours by his rigorous and strict probity, inferior but im- 
portant functions. His evidence is as follows: ‘I do not 
require moral presumptions and material proof to contradict 
the prisoners’ assertions, for I recognize him perfectly. This 
man’s name is not Champmathieu. He is Jean Valjean, an 
ex-convict of a very violent and vicious character. It was 
with great reluctance that he was discharged when he com- 
pleted his time. He had nineteen years’ hard labour for 
theft, and made five or six attempts to escape. In addition 
to the Little Gervais affair and the larceny of the apples, 
I also suspect him of a robbery committed in the house of 
his Grace the late bishop of D———. I frequently saw him 
when I was assistant jailer at Toulon; and I repeat that I 
recognize him perfectly.’ ” 

Such a precise statement seemed to produce a lively effect 
on the audience and the jury, and the attorney-general wound 
up by requesting that the other three witnesses should be 
brought in and re-examined. The judge gave an order to 
an usher, and a moment after the door of the witness-room 
opened. ‘The usher, accompanied by a policeman, brought in 
the prisoner Brevet. The audience were all in suspense, and 
their breasts heaved as if they had but one soul among them. 
The ex-convict Brevet wore the black and gray jacket of the 
central prisons. He was a man about sixty years of age, 
who had the face of a business man and the look of a rogue, 
—— these are sometimes seen together. He had become a sort 
of a jailer in the prison to which fresh offences had brought 
him, and was a man of whom his superior said, “ He tries to 
make himself useful.” The chaplains bore testimony to his 
religious habits; and it inust not be forgotten that this trial 
took place under the Restoration. 

“ Brevet,” said the judge, “Sas you have undergone an in- 
famous sentence, you cannot be sworn.” 

Brevet looked down humbly. 


eee 


0 EO 


FANTINE 299 


“Still,” continued the judge, “ there may remain, by the 
permission of Heaven, a feeling of honour and equity even in 
the man whom the law has degraded; and it is to that feeling 
I appeal in this decisive hour. If it still exist in you, as I 
hope, reflect before answering me. Consider, on the one 
hand, this man, whom a word from you may ruin; on the 
other, justice, which a word from you may enlighten. The 
moment is a solemn one; and there is still time for you to re- 
tract, if you believe you are mistaken. Prisoner, stand up. 
Brevet, look at the prisoner. Think over your past memories, 
and tell us on your soul and conscience whether you still per- 
sist in recognizing this man as your old mate at the galleys, 
Jean Valjean.” 

Brevet looked at the prisoner, and then turned to the 
court. 

“* Yes, sir; I was the first who recognized him, and I stick 
to it. This man is Jean Valjean, who came to Toulon in 
1796 and left in 1815. I came out a year later. He looks 
like a brute now, but age has brutalized him; he was crafty 
at the hulks. I recognize him positively.” 

“Sit down,” said the judge. ‘* Prisoner, remain stand- 
ing.” 

Chenildieu was next brought in, a convict for life, as was 
shown by his red jacket and green cap. He was serving 
his time at Toulon, whence he had been fetched for this 
trial. He was a little man about fifty years of age, quick, 
wrinkled, thin, yellow, impudent, and feverish, who had in 
all his limbs and about his whole person a sort of sickly weak- 
ness, and immense force in his look. His mates at the galleys 
had nicknamed him I-deny-God. The judge addressed him 
much as he had done Brevet. When he reminded him that 
his crime robbed him of the right to take an oath, Chenildieu 
raised his head and looked boldly at the crowd. The judge 
begged him to reflect, and asked him if he still persisted in 
recognizing the prisoner. Chenildieu burst into a laugh: — 

“TI should think Ido! Why, we were fastened to the same 
chain for five years. So you are sulky, old man?” 


300 FANTINE 


“ Sit down,” said the judge. 

The usher brought in Cochepaille, another convict for life, 
who had been fetched from the galleys, and who was dressed 
in red like Chenildieu. He was a peasant of Lourdes and a 
semi-bear of the Pyrenees. He had been a shepherd in the 
mountains, and had gradually slipped into brigandage. 
Cochepaille was no less savage, and appeared even more 
stupid than the prisoner. He was one of those wretched men 
whom nature has laid out for wild beasts, and whom society 
finishes off as galley-slaves. ‘The judge tried to move him by 
a few grave and pathetic words, and asked him, like the two 
others, whether he still persisted, without any hesitation or 
trouble; in recognizing the man standing before him. 

“It is Jean Valjean,” said Cochepaille. ‘* He was nick- 
named Jean the Jack, because he was so strong.” 

The statements of each of these three men, evidently sincere 
and made in good faith, aroused in the audience a murmur 
of evil omen for the prisoner, a murmur which grew louder 
and more prolonged every time that a fresh declaration was 
added to the preceding one. ‘The prisoner himself listened 
with that amazed face which, according to the indictment, was 
his principal means of defence. At the first statement, the 
police heard him mutter between his teeth, “ Well, that’s a 
good one!” After the second, he said rather louder, and 
with an air of satisfaction, “‘ Capital!” At the third, he 
exclaimed, “‘ Famous!” The judge addressed him:— 

“You have heard the evidence, prisoner; have you any- 
thing to say?” 

He answered : — 

** I say, ‘ famous!? ” 

A laugh broke out in the audience and almost infected 
the jury. It was plain that the man was lost. 

“ Ushers,” said the judge, “order silence in the court; I 
am about to sum up.” 

At this moment there was a movement close beside the 
judge, and a voice was heard crying: — 


“ Brevet, Chenildieu, and Cochepaille, look this way.” All 


FANTINE 301 


who heard the voice felt chilled to the heart, it was so lament- 
able and terrible. All eyes turned in the direction whence it 
came. A man seated among the privileged spectators behind 
the court, had arisen, pushed open the gate that separated the 
judges’ bench from the audience, and stepped down into the 
centre of the court. ‘The judge, the attorney-general, M. 
Bamatabois, twenty persons, recognized him, and exclaimed 
simultaneously, ** Monsieur Madeleine! ” 





CHAPTER XI 
CHAMPMATHIEU MORE AND MORE ASTOUNDED 


T was indeed he. The clerk’s lamp lit up his face. He 
held his hat in his hand, there was no disorder in his 
dress, his coat was carefully buttoned. He was very pale, 
and trembled slightly ; his hair, which had been grey when he 
reached Arras, was now perfectly white,— it had turned dur- 
ing the hour he had passed in the court. Every head was 
raised, the sensation was indescribable, and there was a momen- 
tary hesitation among the spectators. The voice was so full 
of agony, the man standing there seemed so calm, that at 
first they did not understand, and wondered who had spoken. 
They could not believe that that tranquil man could have ut- 
tered that terrific cry. This indecision lasted but a few 
moments. Before the judge and the attorney-general could 
utter a word, before the police and ushers could -make a 
move, the man, whom all still called M. Madeleine, walked up 
to the witnesses, Brevet, Chenildieu, and Cochepaille. 

“Do you not recognize me? ” he asked. 

All three stood amazed, and shook their heads, in token 
that they did not know him; Cochepaille, who was frightened, 
gave a military salute. M. Madeleine turned to the jury 
and the court, and said in a gentle voice: — 

“ Gentlemen of the jury, acquit the prisoner. Judge, ar- 


302 FAN TINE 


rest me. He is not the man you seek, for—I am Jean 
Valjean.” 

No one breathed,— the first commotion of astonishment 
was followed by a sepulchral silence. All felt that religious 
‘terror which seizes a crowd when something grand is done. 
The judge’s face, however, displayed sympathy and sorrow. 
He exchanged a rapid sign with the attorney-general, and a 
few words in a low voice with the recorders. He then turned 
to the spectators, and asked in accents which all understood: 

*‘ Is there a medical man present? ”” 

The attorney-general then said: — 

‘“¢ Gentlemen of the jury, the strange and unexpected event 
which has disturbed the trial inspires us, as it does you, with 
a feeling which we need not express. You all know, at least 
by reputation, the worthy M. Madcleine, Mayor of M 
If there be a medical man here, we join the judge in begging 
him to attend M. Madeleine and remove him to his house.” 

M. Madeleine did not allow the attorney-general to con- 
clude, but interrupted him with gentleness and authority. 
These are the words he spoke. We reproduce them literally 
as they were written down by one of the witnesses of this 
scene, and as they still live in the ears of those who heard them 
just forty years ago: — 

‘J thank you, sir, but I am not mad, as you will soon see. 
You were on the point of committing a great error. Set that 
man at liberty. I am accomplishing a duty, for I am the 
hapless convict. I am the only man who sees clearly here, and 
I am telling you the truth. What I do at this moment, God 
above sees; and that is enough for me. You may arrest me, 
for here I am; and yet I did my best. I hid myself under 
another name, I became rich, I became mayor, and I wished to 
return to the society of honest men; but it seems that this is 
impossible. ‘There are many things I cannot tell you, as I am 
not going to describe my life; for one day it will be known. 
It is true that I robbed the bishop; also that I robbed Little 
Gervais; and they were right to tell you that Jean Valjean 
was a dangerous villain,— though perhaps all the fault did 





FANTINE 303 


not he with him. Listen, gentlemen of the court. A man 
so degraded as myself cannot remonstrate with Providence, or 
give advice to society; but I will say that the infamy from 
which I sought to emerge is an injurious thing, and the 
galleys make the convict what he is. Be good enough to bear 
that fact in mind. Before I went to Toulon, I was a poor 
peasant, with but little intelligence,— almost an idiot; but 
the galleys changed me. I was stupid; I became wicked. I 
was a log, and I became a fire-brand. At a later date, in- 
dulgence and goodness saved me in the same way as severity 
had destroyed me. But, forgive me; you cannot understand 
what Isay. 'The two-franc piece I stole seven years ago from 
Little Gervais will be found at my house among the ashes in 
the fireplace. I have nothing more to add, so arrest me. 
Good heavens! The attorney-general shakes his head. You 
say M. Madeleine has gone mad; you do not believe me. 
This is a sad state of things. At least, do not condemn this 
man. What! Those three do not recognize me! Oh, I wish 
that Javert were here, for he would recognize me!” 

No pen can render the kindly, grave melancholy of the tone 
in which these words were uttered. He then turned to the 
three convicts: — 

“Well, I recognize you. Brevet, do you not remember 
me?” He broke off, hesitated for a moment, and said: — 

“* Can you remember the checkered braces you used to wear 
at the galleys? ” 

Brevet gave a start of surprise, and looked at him from 
head to foot in terror. Madeleine continued: 

“‘ Chenildieu,— who called yourself I-deny-God,— you 
have a deep burn on your right shoulder, because you placed 
it one day on a pan of charcoal in order to efface the three 
letters, T. F. P.,1 which, however, are still visible. Answer 
me,— is this true? ” , 

“ Tt is true,” said Chenildieu. 

“ Cochepaille, you have near the hollow of your left arm 
a date marked in blue letters with burnt gunpowder. The 

1 Travaux forcés perpetuels,—“ Hard labour for life.” 


304 FANTINE 


date is that of the Emperor's landing at Cannes, March 1, 
1815. Roll up your sleeve.” 

Cochepaille did so, and every eye was turned to his bare 
arm. A policeman brought a lamp, and the date was there. 
The unhappy man turned to the audience and the judges 
with a smile, which to this day affects those who saw it. It 
was the smile of triumph, but it was also the smile of despair. 

“You see plainly,” he said, “that I am Jean Val- 
jean.” 

In the hall there were now neither judges, accusers, nor 
police. There were only starting eyes and heaving hearts. 
No one thought of the part he might be called on to per- 
form,— the attorney-general that he was there to prove a 
crime, the judge to pass sentence, and: the prisoner’s counsel 
to defend. It was a striking thing that no question was 
asked, no authority interfered. It is the property of sublime 
spectacles to seize on all minds and make spectators of all the 
witnesses. No one perhaps accounted for his feelings, no one 
said to himself that he saw the glory of a great light; but 
all felt dazzled in their hearts. It was evident that Jean 
Valjean stood before them. 'The appearance of this man 
was sufficient to throw a bright light on the affair which was 
so obscure a moment previous. Without any explanation, the 
entire crowd understood, as if by a sort of electric revelation, 
at once and at a glance, the simple and magnificent story of 
a man who denounced himself that another man might not be 
condemned in his place. Details, hesitation, any possible re- 
sistance, were lost in this vast, luminous fact. It was an 
impression which quickly passed away, but at the moment was 
irresistible. 

** I will not occupy the time of the court longer,” continued 
Jean Valjean; “I shall go, as I am not arrested, for I have 
several things to do. The attorney-general knows who I am; 
he knows where I am going; and he will order me to be ar- 
rested when he thinks proper.” 

He walked toward the door, and not a voice was raised, not 
an arm stretched forth to prevent him. All fell back, for 


. . 4 
a rr re eC —__ 


= , _— — 


FANTINE 305 


there was something divine in this incident, which caused the 
multitude to stand aside and make way for a single man. He 
slowly traversed the crowd. It was never known who opened 
the door, but it is certain that he found it open when he 
reached it. There, he turned and said: — 

** I am at your orders, sir.” 

Then he addressed the audience : — 

‘I presume that all of you consider me worthy of pity. 
Great God! when I think what I was on the point of doing, I 
consider myself worthy of envy. Still I should have pre- 
ferred that all this had not taken place.” 

He went out, and the door was closed as it had been opened ; 
for men who do certain supreme deeds are always sure of be- 
ing served by some one in the crowd. Less than an hour 
after, the verdict of the jury acquitted Champmathieu; and 
Champmathieu, who was at once set at liberty, went away 
in a state of stupefaction, believing all men mad, and not at 


all comprehending the vision which he had beheld. 
20 


BOOK VIII 
THE COUNTERSTROKE 





CHAPTER I 
IN WHAT MIRROR M. MADELEINE LOOKS AT HIS HAIR 


AY was beginning to dawn. Fantine had passed a 
sleepless and feverish night, though full of bright 
visions, and toward morning fell asleep. Sister Simplicity, 
who was watching, took advantage of this slumber to go and 
prepare a fresh dose of bark. ‘The worthy sister had been 
for some time in the surgery, stooping over her drugs and 
bottles, and looking carefully at them on account of the dim 
light which dawn spreads over all things. Suddenly she 
turned her head and gave a faint shriek. M. Madeleine had 
entered silently and was standing before her. 

“Is it you, sir? ” she exclaimed. 

He answered in a low voice: — 

‘© How is the poor creature? ” 

“Not so bad just at present, but she has frightened us 
terribly.” 

She explained what had occurred; how Fantine had been 
very ill the previous day, but was now better, because she 
believed that he had gone to Montfermeil to fetch her child. 
The sister did not dare question him, but she could see from 
his looks that he had not been there. 

“All that is well,” he said. “ You did right not to un- 
deceive her.” 





FANTINE 307 


‘¢ Yes,” continued the sister, “ but now that she sees you, 
sir, and does not see her child, what are we to tell her? ” 

He considered a moment. 

“ God will inspire us,” he said. 

‘¢ Still, we cannot tell a lie,”? the sister murmured in a low 
voice. 

It was now broad day in the room, and the light fell full 
on M. Madeleine’s face. The sister raised her eyes by 
chance. 

“ Good gracious, sir!” she exclaimed; “ what can have 
happened to you? Your hair is quite white.” 

“ White! ” said he. 

Sister Simplicity had no mirror, but she took from a 
drawer a small looking-glass which the infirmary doctor em- 
ployed to make sure that a patient was dead, and no longer 
breathed. M. Madeleine took this glass, looked at his hair, 
and said, “ So it is.’ He said it carelessly, and as if think- 
ing of something else, and the sister felt chilled by some un- 
known terror of which she caught a glimpse in all this. He 
asked : — 

** Can I see her? ” 

“Will you not get her child for her, sir?” the sister said, 
hardly daring to ask the question. 

** Of course; but it will take at least two or three days.” 

“If she were not to see you till then, sir,” the sister con- 
tinued timidly, “ she would not know that you had returned. 
It would be easy to keep her quiet; and when her child came, 
she would naturally think that you had returned with it. 
That would not be telling a falsehood.” 

M. Madeleine appeared to reflect for a few moments, and 
then said with his calm gravity: — 

*“* No, sister, I must see her; for I am possibly pressed for 
time.” 

The nun did not seem to notice the word “ possibly,” which 
gave an obscure and singular meaning to the mayor’s remark. 
She answered in a low voice: — 

‘Then you can go in, sir, though she is asleep.” 


308 FANTINE 


He made a few remarks about a door that closed badly, 
and whose creaking might awake the patient, then entered 
Fantine’s room, went up to the bed, and opened the curtains. 
She was asleep. Her breath issued from her chest with that 
tragic sound, peculiar to these diseases, which breaks the 
hearts of poor mothers who watch by the side of a sleeping 
child for whom there is no hope; but this painful breathing 
scarce disturbed an ineffable serenity spread over her face, 
which transfigured her in her sleep. Her pallor had become 
whiteness. Her cheeks were carnation. Her long, fair lashes, 
the sole beauty that remained of her virginity and youth, quiv- 
ered, though remaining closed. Her whole person trembled as 
if she had wings which were on the point of expanding and 
bearing her away. To see her thus, no one could have be- 
lieved that she was in an almost hopeless state; for she rather 
resembled a woman about to fly away than one who is going 
to die. ‘The branch, when the hand approaches to pluck the 
flowers, quivers, and seems at once to retire and to advance. 
The human body undergoes something like this shudder when 
the moment comes for the mysterious fingers of death to pluck 
the soul. 

M. Madeleine stood for some time motionless by. the bed, 
looking first at the patient and then at the crucifix, as he had 
done two months previously, on the day when he came for the 
first time to see her in this asylum. They were both in the 
same attitude,— she sleeping, he praying; but in those two 
months her hair had turned gray, and his white. The sister 
had not come in with him. He was standing by the bedside, 
finger on lip, as if there were some one in the room whom he 
was bidding to be silent. She opened her eyes, saw him, and 
said calmly, with a smile: — 

* And Cosette? ” 





FANTINE 809 


CHAPTER II 
FANTINE Is HAPPY 


HE gave no start of surprise, no start of joy, for she 

was joy itself. The simple question, ‘*‘ And Cosette? ” 

was asked in such profound faith, with so much certainty, 

with such an utter absence of anxiety and doubt, that he 
could not find a word to say. She continued: — 

“I knew you were there; for though I was asleep, I saw. 
I have seen you for a long time, and have gazed at you all 
night. You were in a glory, and had around you all sorts 
of heavenly faces.”” She looked up to the crucifix. ‘ But,” 
she continued, “ tell me where Cosette is. Why was she not 
laid in my bed so that I could see her directly I woke? ” | 

He mechanically answered something which he could never 
recall. Luckily the physician, who had been summoned, came 
to M. Madeleine’s assistance. 

*“* My dear girl,” said the physician, “‘ calm yourself. Your 
child is here.” 

Fantine’s eyes sparkled and covered her whole face with 
brightness. She clasped her hands with an expression which 
contained alike all the violence and all the gentleness possible 
to a prayer.” 

** Oh,” she exclaimed, “ bring her to me!” 

Touching maternal illusion! Cosette was still to her the 
little child who must be carried. 

* Not yet,” the physician continued ; “‘ not now. You have 
a little fever hanging about you. The sight of your child 
would agitate you and do you harm. You must get well 
first.” 

She impevuously interrupted him: — 

“ But I am well! I tell you I am well. What a donkey 
this doctor is. I insist on seeing my child.” 

“There, you see,” said the physician, “ how excited you 


310 FANTINE 


are! So long as you are like that, I shall forbid you having 
your child. It is not enough to see her; you must live for 
her. When you are reasonable, I will bring her myself.” 

The poor mother hung her head. 

“Doctor, I ask your pardon. I sincerely ask your par- 
don. In former times I should not have spoken as I did 
just now; but I have gone through so much unhappiness that 
I do not always know what I am saying. I understand. 
You are afraid of the excitement. I will wait as long as you 
like, but I swear that it would not do me any harm to see 
my child. I see her; I have not taken my eyes off her all 
night. Did you know it? If she were brought to me now, 
I should talk very quietly to her. That’s all. Is it not 
very natural that I should want to see my child, who has been 
fetched from Montfermeil expressly for me? I am _ not 
angry, for I know very well that I am going to be happy. 
The whole night I have seen white things and smiling faces. 
The doctor will bring me Cosette when he likes. I have no 
fever now, because I am cured. I feel that there is nothing 
the matter with me; but I will behave as if I were ill, and not 
stir, so as to please these Jadies. When you see that I am 
quite calm, you will say, ‘ We must give her her child.’ ” 

M. Madeleine had seated himself in a chair by the bedside. 
She turned to him, visibly making an effort to appear calm 
and ‘‘ very good,” as she said in that weakness of illness 
which resembles childhood, in order that, seeing her so peace-~ 
ful, there might be no difficulty about bringing Cosette to 
her. Still, while checking herself, she could not refrain 
from asking M. Madeleine a thousand questions. 

“Have you had a pleasant journey, sir? Oh, how kind 
it was of you to go and fetch her for me! Only tell me how 
she is. Did she stand the journey well? Alas! she will not 
recognize me; she will have forgotten me in all this time, 
poor darling. Children have no memory. They are like 
the birds. To-day they see one thing and to-morrow an- 
other, and do not think about anything. Had she clean un- 
derclothing? Did those Thénardiers keep her clean? What 


FANTINE 311 


food did they give her? Oh, if you only knew how I suffered 
when I asked myself all these questions during the period of 
my wretchedness! But now it is all passed away, and I am 
happy. Oh, how I should like to see her! Is not she pretty, 
sir? You must have been cold in the stage-coach. Can she 
not be brought here just for a moment? She could be 
taken away again directly afterward. You could do it if 
you liked, as you are the mayor.” 

He took her hand and said, ‘‘ Cosette is lovely; she is 
well; you will see her soon, but calm yourself. You speak 
too eagerly ; and then you put your arms out of bed, which 
will make you cough.” 

In fact a fit of coughing interrupted Fantine at nearly 
every word. She did not object; she feared lest she had 
injured the confidence she wished to inspire, by too impas- 
sioned entreaties, and she began talking of indifferent mat- 
ters. 

** Montfermeil is rather a pretty place, is it not? In sum- 
mer, pleasure parties go there. Have those Thénardiers a 
good trade? Not many people pass through the village, 
and theirs is a sort of pot-house.” 

M. Madeleine still held her hand, and looked at her anx- 
iously. It was evident that he had come to tell her some- 
thing from which he now shrank. The physician had left, 
and Sister Simplicity alone remained with them. In the 
midst of this silence Fantine exclaimed: “I hear her; I 
hear her!”? She put out her hand to command silence, held 
her breath, and listened in ecstasy. A child was playing in 
the yard; probably it belonged to one of the workmen. It 
was one of those accidents which constantly occur, and which 
seem to form part of the mysterious stage-setting of mourn- 
ful events. The child, a little girl, was running about to 
warm herself, laughing and singing loudly. Alas! what is 
there in which children’s games are not mingled? 

“Oh,” continued Fantine, ‘tis my Cosette! I recognize 
her voice.” 

The child went away as it had come. Her voice died out. 


312 | FANTINE 


Fantine listened for some time; then her face clouded, and 
M. Madeleine heard her murmur, “* How unkind that doctor is 
not to let me see my child! ‘That man has a bad face.” — 

Still, her cheerful ideas returned, and she continued to talk 
to herself, with her head on the pillow. ‘ How happy we shall 
be! We will have a small garden, for M. Madeleine has 
promised me that. My child will play in the garden. She 
must know her alphabet by this time, and I will teach her 
to spell. She will chase butterflies, and I shall look at her. 
Then she will take her first communion. Let me see when 
that will be.” 

She began counting on her fingers :-— 

‘One, two, three, four,— she is now seven years old. In 
five years, then, she will wear a white veil, open-work stock- 
ings, and look like a little lady. Oh, my good sister, you 
cannot think how foolish I am, for I am thinking of my 
daughter’s first communion.” 

And she began to laugh. Madeleine had let go Fan- 
tine’s hand, and listened to these words as one listens to the 
soughing breeze, with his eyes on the ground, and his mind 
plunged in unfathomable reflections. All at once she ceased 
speaking; and this made him raise his head mechanically. 
Fantine had become frightful to look at. She no longer 
spoke; she no longer breathed. She was half sitting up, and 
her thin shoulder projected from her night-gown. Her face, 
radiant a moment before, was ghastly, and she seemed to 
fix her eyes, dilated by terror, upon something awful at 
the other end of the room. 

“Great heavens!” he exclaimed. ‘‘ What is the matter 
with you, Fantine? ” 

She did not answer; she did not remove her eyes from the 
object — whatever it might be — which she fancied she saw; 
but she touched his arm with one hand, and with the other 
made him a sign to look behind him. He turned and saw 
Javert. 


— : , . 
- _— » &lt;&lt; ce 6 ee eee OC 


FANTINE 313 


CHAPTER II 
JAVERT IS SATISFIED 


HIS is what had occurred. Half-past twelve was strik- 
ing when M. Madeleine left the assize court of Arras; 

and he returned to the hotel just in time to start by the mail- 
cart in which he had booked his place. A little before six 
A. M. he reached M , and his first care was to post the 
letter for Lafitte, then to proceed to the infirmary and see 
Fantine. Still, he had scarce quitted the court ere the at- 
torney-general, recovering from his stupor, rose to his feet, 
deplored the act of mania on the part of the honourable mayor 
of M , declared that his convictions were in no way modi- 
fied by this strange incident, which would be cleared up here- 
after, and demanded in the interim the conviction of this 
Champmathieu, evidently the true Jean Valjean. The per- 
sistency of the attorney-general was visibly at variance with 
the feelings of all,—the public, the court, and the jury. 
The counsel for the defence had little difficulty in refut- 
ing his arguments and in establishing that through the 
revelations of M. Madeleine, that is to say, the real Jean 
Valjean, circumstances were entirely altered, and the jury 
had an innocent man before them. ‘The barrister deduced 
a few unluckily rather stale arguments about judicial errors, 
etc. The judge, in his summing up, supported him; and 
the jury in a few moments acquitted Champmathieu. Still, 
the attorney-general wanted a Jean Valjean; and, as he no 
longer had Champmatheiu, he took Madeleine. Immedi- 
ately after Champmatheiu was acquitted he had a confer- 
ence with the judge as to the necessity of arresting the mayor 
of M ; and his first emotion having passed off, the judge 
raised but few objections. Justice must take its course; and 
then, to tell the truth, although the judge was a kind and 
rather sensible man, he was at the same time a very ardent 











314 FANTINE 





royalist, and was offended because the mayor of M , in 
alluding to the landing at Cannes, said “ the Emperor,”’ and 
not “ Bonaparte.” The order of arrest was consequently 
made out, and at once sent off by express to M , addressed 
to Inspector Javert, who, as we know, returned home imme- 
|diately after he had given his evidence. 





Javert was just dressing when the messenger handed him 


the order of arrest and the warrant. ‘This messenger was 
himself a very skilful policeman, who informed Javert in two 
words of what had occurred at Arras. The order of arrest, 
signed by the attorney-general, was thus conceived: “ Inspect- 
or Javert will arrest Monsieur Madeleine, mayor of M ; 
who in this day’s session was recognized as the discharged 
convict, Jean Valjean.”” Any one who did not know Javert, 
and had seen him when he entered the infirmary anteroom, 
could not have guessed what was taking place, but would 
have thought he looked just as usual. He was cool, calm, 
serious, his gray hair was smoothed down on his temples, 
and he went up the stairs with his usual deliberation; but 
any one who was well acquainted with him, and who ex- 
amined him closely, would have shuddered. The buckle of 
his leather stock, instead of sitting in the nape of his neck, 
was under his left ear. This revealed an extraordinary agi- 
tation. Javert was a complete character, without a crease 
in his duty or in his uniform, methodical with criminals, and 
rigid with his coat-buttons. For him to have his stock out 
of order, it was necessary for him to suffer from one of those 
emotions which might be called internal earthquakes. He had 
merely fetched a corporal and four men from the station 
close by, left them in the yard, and had Fantine’s room 
pointed out to him by the unsuspecting portress, who was 
accustomed to hear policemen ask for the mayor. 

On reaching Fantine’s door, Javert turned the handle, 
pushed the door open with the gentleness of a sick-nurse or 
a spy, and entered. Correctly speaking, he did not enter. 
He stood in the half-opened door with his hat on his head, 
and his left hand thrust into the breast of his great-coat, 





9 Eee en 


FANTINE | 815 


which was buttoned to the chin. Under his elbow was the 
leaden knob of his enormous cane, which was concealed behind 
his back. He stood thus for nearly a minute, no one per- 
celving his presence. All at once Fantine raised her eyes, 
saw him, and made M. Madeleine turn. At the moment when 
Madeleine’s glance met that of Javert, the latter, without 
stirring or drawing near, became fearful. No human feeling 
can be so horrible as joy. It was the face of a fiend who 
has just found a condemned soul. The certainty of at length 
holding Jean Valjean caused all that was in his soul to ap- 
pear on his countenance, and the stirred-up sediment rose to 
the surface. ‘The humiliation of having for a while lost the 
trail, and of having been mistaken with regard to Champma- 
thieu was effaced by his pride at having guessed so correctly 
in the beginning, and having had a true instinct for such a 
length of time. Javert’s satisfaction was displayed in his 
sovereign attitude, and the deformity of triumph overspread 
his narrow forehead. 

Javert at this moment was in heaven. Without distinctly 
comprehending the fact, but still with a confused intuition of 
his necessity and his success, he, Javert, personified justice, 
light, and truth in their celestial function of crushing evil. 
He had behind him, around him, at an infinite depth, au- 
thority, reason, the legal conscience, the public prosecution, all 
the stars. He protected order, he drew down the thunders 
of the law, he avenged society, he rendered assistance to the 
absolute. There was in his victory a remnant of defiance and 
combat. Upright, haughty, and dazzling, he flaunted the 
superhuman bestiality of a ferocious archangel in the bright 
azure of heaven. The fearful shadow of the deed he was 
doing, rendered visible in his clenched fist the flashing social 
sword. Happy and indignant, he held beneath his heel crime, 
vice, perdition, rebellion, and hell. He was radiant; he ex- 
terminated, he smiled, and there was an undoubted grandeur 
in this monstrous Saint Michael. Javert, though terrifying, 
was not ignoble. Probity, sincerity, candour, conviction, 
and the idea of duty are things which, when mistaken, may 


316 FANTINE 


become hideous, but which, even if hideous, are grand. Their 
majesty, peculiar to the human conscience, persists in the 
midst of horror; they are virtues which have but one vice,— 
error. The pitiless, honest joy of a fanatic, in the full flood 
of his atrocity, retains a touching and venerable radiance. 
Without suspecting it, Javert, in his terrible happiness, was 
to be pitied, like every ignorant man who triumphs. Nothing 
could be so heart-rending and terrible as that face, in which 
was displayed all that may be called the wickedness of the 
good. 





CHAPTER IV 
AUTHORITY RESUMES ITS RIGHTS 


ANTINE had not seen Javert since the day when the 

mayor tore her from his clutches, and her sickly brain 

could form no thought save that he had come to fetch her. 

She could not endure his frightful face. She felt herself 

dying. She buried her face in her hands, and cried in 
agony: — 

** Monsieur Madeleine, save me! ”’ 

Jean Valjean,—we shall not call him otherwise in fu- 
ture,— had risen, and said to Fantine in his gentlest, calmest 
voice: — 

“Do not be alarmed. He has not come for you.” 

Then he turned to Javert, and said: — 

“TI know what you want.” 

And Javert answered : — 

** Come, be quick about it.” 

The tone in which these words were spoken was savage 
and frenzied. He did not say, “ Be quick about it!” he 
said, ‘“‘ Bequiabouit!”” No orthography could do justice to 
his tone, for it was no longer human speech; it was a roar. 
He did not proceed as usual; he did not enter into the 


ne 


SY 
es ee ee 





FANTINE 317 


matter, or display his warrant. To him Jean Valjean was a 
sort of mysterious combatant, a strange wrestler, with whom 
he had been struggling for five years, without being able to 
throw him. This arrest was not a beginning, but an end; 
and he confined himself to saying, ‘‘ Come, be quick about 
it!”? As he said this, he did not advance a step. He merely 
darted at Jean Valjean a look which he threw out as a grap- 
ple, and with which he was used to draw wretches violently to 
him. It was this look which Fantine had felt pierce her very 
marrow two months before. At Javert’s roar, Fantine opened 
her eyes again; but the mayor was there, so what had she 
to fear? Javert advanced to the middle of the room and 
cried : — 

** Look here, are you coming? ” 

The unhappy girl looked about her. No one was present 
but the nun and the mayor. To whom, then, could this hu- 
miliating remark be addressed? Only to herself. She shud- 
dered. ‘Then she saw an extraordinary thing, so extraor- 
dinary that nothing like had ever appeared to her in the 
darkest delirium of fever. She saw the policeman, Javert, 
seize the mayor by the collar, and she saw the mayor bow 
his head. It seemed to her as if the end of the world had 
come. 

“Mr. Mayor!” screamed Fantine. 

Javert burst into a laugh,— that frightful laugh which 
showed all his teeth. 

“‘ There is no mayor here.” 

Jean Valjean did not attempt to remove the hand that 
grasped his collar. He said: — 

“© Javert —”’ 

Javert interrupted him: ‘* Call me Mr. Inspector.” 

—*T should like to say a word to you in private, sir,” con- 
tinued Jean Valjean. 

“ Speak up,” Javert answered, “speak up; people talk 
aloud to me.” 

Jean Valjean went on in a low voice: — 

‘TJ have a request to make of you,” 


318 FANTINE 


“TI tell you to speak up.” 

‘‘ But no one else must hear it —’ 

‘ What do I care for that? I am not listening!” 

Jean Valjean turned to him and said rapidly, and in a 
very low voice: — 

‘Grant me three days! Three days to go and fetch this 
unhappy woman’s child! I will pay whatever you ask, and 
you can go with me if you like.” 

“You must be joking,” cried Javert. ‘“ Why, I did not 
think you were such a fool! You ask me to give you three 
days that you may bolt! You say that it is to fetch this 
girl’s brat! Oh! ho! that is fine, very fine!” 

Fantine trembled. 

“ My child!” she exclaimed; “to go and fetch my child? 
Then she is not here! Sister, answer me,— where is Co- 
sette? I want my child! Monsieur Madeleine! Mr. 
Mayor!” 

Javert stamped his foot. 

‘“‘There is the other beginning now. Will you be quiet, 
wench? A devilish country this is, where galley-slaves are 
magistrates, and street-walkers are nursed like countesses. 
Well, well, it will be altered now, and it’s high time.” 

He Glnmed at Fantine, and added, as he took a fresh hold 
of Jean Valjean’s cravat, shirt, and coat-collar: — 

*¢T tell you there is no M. Madeleine and no mayor here, 
but there is a robber, a brigand, a convict named Jean Val- 
jean, and I’ve got him,— that’s what there is.” 

Fantine started up in bed, supporting herself on her stif- 
fened arms and on both hands. She looked at Jean Valjean. 
She looked at Javert. She looked at the nun. She opened 
her mouth as if to speak, but there was a rattle in her 
throat, her teeth chattered, she stretched out her arms in 
agony, convulsively opened her hands, clutched like one 
drowning, and then suddenly fell back on the pillow. Her 
head struck against the head-board, and fell forward on her 
breast, with gaping mouth and staring, sightless eyes,— she 
was dead. Jean Valjean laid his hand on Javert’s detainipg 


EE 





“He therefore remained, elutehed his stick by the small end, and 
leaned against the door-post, without taking his eves off Jean Valjean.” 


Les Miserables. Fantines Page 319 





FANTINE 819 
hand, opened it as if it had been a child’s hand, and then 


said : — 

“You have killed this woman.” 

“ Enough!” Javert shouted furiously. ‘ I am not here to 
listen to abuse, so you can save your breath. There is a 
guard below, so come on, or I shall handcuff you.” 

There was a rickety old iron bedstead in the corner of the 
room, which the sisters used as a sofa when they had to sit 
up at night. Jean Valjean went to this bed, tore off the 
head-piece in a twinkling (an easy thing for muscles like 
his), seized the supporting bar, and looked at Javert. Ja- 
vert shrank back to the door. Jean Valjean, with the iron 
bar in his hand, walked slowly up to Fantine’s bed. When 
he reached it, he turned and said to Javert in a scarcely audi- 
ble voice: 

**I would advise you not to disturb me just at present.” 

One thing is certain, Javert trembled. He thought of go- 
ing to fetch the guard; but Jean Valjean might take ad- 
vantage of his absence to escape. He therefore remained, 
clutched his stick by the small end, and leaned against the 
door-post, without taking his eyes off Jean Valjean. The 
latter rested his elbow on the bedstead, and his head on his 
hand, and gazed at Fantine, who lay motionless before him. 
He remained thus, absorbed and silent, and had evidently for- 
gotten everything else connected with this life. On his face 
and in his attitude there was only an indescribable pity. Af- 
ter a few minutes passed in this revery, he stooped over 
Fantine, and spoke to her in a low voice. What did he say? 
What could that outcast man say to that dead woman? No 
one on earth heard the words, but did that dead woman 
hear them? ‘There are touching illusions, which are per- 
haps sublime realities. One thing is indubitable; Sister Sim- 
plicity, the sole witness of what took place, has frequently de- 
clared that when Jean Valjean whispered in Fantine’s ear, 
she distinctly saw an ineffable smile play round her pale lips 
and in her dim eyes, filled with the wonder of the tomb. Jean 
Valjean took Fantine’s head in both hands, and laid it on 


320 FANTINE 


the pillow, as a mother might have done to a child. Then 
he tied the strings of her night-gown, and thrust her hair 
under her cap. When this was done, he closed her eyes. 
Fantine’s face at that moment seemed strangely illumined; 
for death is the entrance into brilliant light. Fantine’s hand 
hung out of bed. Jean Valjean knelt down before that hand, 
gently raised and kissed it. Then he rose and turned to 
Javert : — 
‘** Now I am at your service.” 





CHAPTER V 
A FITTING TOMB 


AVERT placed Jean Valjean in the town jail. The ar- 
rest of M. Madeleine produced a sensation, or rather 

an extraordinary commotion in M ; but we regret to say 
that nearly everybody abandoned him on hearing that he 
had been a galley-slave. In less than two hours all the good 
he had done was forgotten, and he was only a galley-slave. 
It is but fair to add, though, that the details of the affair at 
Arras were not yet known. The whole day through, con- 
versations like the following could be heard in all parts of 
the town: — 

** Don’t you know? He is a discharged convict.” 

* Who is?” 

‘The mayor.” 

** Nonsense! M. Madeleine? ” 

66 Yes.” 

** Really? ” 

“His name is not Madeleine, but some hideous thing like 
Bejean, Bojean, Boujean.” 

** Oh, my goodness! ” 

** He has been arrested.” 








FANTINE 521 


** Arrested ? ” 

“¢ And will remain in the town jail till he is removed.” 

“Removed? Where to? ” 

‘“‘He will be tried at the assizes for a highway robbery 
which he once committed.” 

“Well, do you know, I always suspected that man, for he 
was too kind, too perfect, too devout. He refused the Cross, 
and gave half-pence to all the little scamps he met. I ‘al- 
ways thought that there was some black history behind.” 

The ‘* drawing-rooms ” made the most of the occasion. An 
old lady, who subscribed to the “ Drapeau Blanc,” made this 
remark, whose depth it is almost impossible to fathom: — 

“ Well, I am not sorry; for it will be a lesson to the Bona- 
partists.” 

It is thus that the phantom known as M. Madeleine van- 
ished from M Only three or four persons in the whole 
town remained faithful to his memory, and his old servant 
was one of them. On the evening of that same day this 
worthy old woman was sitting im her lodge, still all in a 
quiver, and indulging in sad thoughts. The factory had 
been closed all day, the gates were bolted, and the street was 
deserted. ‘There was no one in the house but the two nuns, 
— Sister Perpetua and Sister Simplicity,— who were watch- 
ing by Fantine’s body. Toward the hour when M. Made- 
leine was wont to come home, the worthy portress rose me- 
chanically, took from a drawer the key of his bedroom, and 
the candlestick which he used at night to go upstairs. Then 
she hung the key on the nail from which he usually took it, 
and placed the candlestick by its side, as if she expected him. 
Then she sat down again and resumed her sad thoughts. The 
poor old woman had done all this unconsciously. She did 
not wake from her revery for more than two hours, and then 
she exclaimed, “ Only think of that! I have hung his key 
on the nail!” 

At this moment the window opened, a hand was passed 
through the opening, which seized the key and,lit the candle 
by ie taper. The portress raised her eyes and stood with 





322 FANTINE 


gaping mouth, but she repressed the cry which rose to her 
lips; for she recognized this hand, this arm, this coat-sleeve, 
as belonging to M. Madeleine. It was some seconds ere she 
could speak, for she “‘ was struck dumb,” as she said after- 
ward when describing the adventure. 

“Good gracious, Mr. Mayor!” she at length exclaimed, 
“IT thought you were —” 

She stopped, for the end of the sentence would have been 
disrespectful to the first part. Jean Valjean was still the 
mayor to her. He completed her thought. 

“That I was in prison?” he said. “So I was, but I 
pulled a bar from the window, leaped out, and here I am. 
I am going to my room; go and fetch Sister 2220) 1 ON who 
doubtless is with that poor woman.’ 

The old servant hastened to obey; he gave her no warn- 
ing, for he was quite sure that she would guard him better 
than he could guard himself. It was never known how he 
managed to get into the yard without having the gate 
opened. 

He always carried a pass-key, whch opened a little side 
door; but he must have been searched and this key taken 
from him. This point was never explained. He went up 
the stairs that led to his room, and on reaching the landing, 
left the candle on the top stair, closed his window and shutters 
in the dark, and then entered the room with the candle. This 
precaution was useful, for it will be remembered that his win- 
dow could be seen from the street. He took a glance around, 
at his table, his chair, his bed, which had not been slept in 
for three nights. No trace of the disorder of the night be- 
fore last remained, for the portress had “ done his room; ” 
but she had picked out of the ashes and laid neatly on the 
table the two iron ends of the stick and the forty-sous piece, 
which was blackened by the fire. He took a sheet. of paper, 
on which he wrote, “ This is the two-franc piece stolen from 
Little Gervais, to which I alluded in court;”’ and he laid the 
coin on the paper, so that it should be the first thing seen on 
entering the room. He took from a drawer an old shirt, 


OO Ea ——— 


FANTINE 323 


which he tore up, and wrapped the two candlesticks in the 
rags. Still he displayed no haste or agitation; and while 
wrapping up the candlesticks, he ate a piece of black bread, 
— probably the prison bread which he had taken with him on 
his escape. ‘This fact was proved by the crumbs found on the 
floor when the authorities made an investigation at a later 
date. ‘There were two gentle taps at the door. 

** Come in,” he said. 

It was Sister Simplicity. She was pale, her eyes were red, 
and the candle she held shook in her hand. Violent events 
of destiny have this peculiarity, that however perfect or cold 
we may be, they draw human nature out of our entrails and 
compel it to re-appear on the surface. Amid the emotions 
of this day the nun had become a woman again. She had 
wept, and was trembling. Jean Valjean had just finished 
writing some lines on a piece of paper, which he handed to 
the sister, with the remark, “* Sister, you will deliver this to 
the priest.” 

As the paper was open, she glanced at it. ‘‘ You may read 
it,” he said. 

She read, “ I request the priest to take charge of all that 
I leave here. He will be good enough to defray out of it the 
costs of my trial and the interment of the woman who died this 
morning. The rest will be for the poor.” 

The sister attempted to speak, but could only produce a few 
inarticulate sounds. At length she managed to say: — 

*¢ Do you not wish to see the poor unhappy gir! for the last 
time, sir? ” 

“‘ No,” he said, ‘I am pursued; and if I were to be ar- 
rested in her room it would disturb her.” 

He had scarce said this ere a great noise broke out on the 
staircase. They heard the sound of ascending steps, and 
heard the old servant cry out in her loudest and most pierc- 
ing voice: — 

‘* My good sir, I can take my oath that no one has come 
in here all day or all the evening, and I have not left my 
post once.” 


B24 FANTINE 


A man answered : — 

‘ But there is a light in that.room.” 

They recognized Javert’s voice. The room was so built 

that the door, on being thrown open, concealed the corner of 
the right-hand wall. Jean Valjean blew out the light and 
crept into the corner. Sister Simplicity fell on her knees by 
the table as the door opened and Javert entered. The voices 
of several men and the protestations of the old portress were 
heard. . The nun did not raise her eyes. She was praying. 
Her candle was on the chimney-piece, and gave but little 
light, and on seeing the nun Javert halted in great confusion. 
It will be remembered that the very basis of Javert, his ele- 
ment, the air he breathed, was reverence for all authority. 
He was solid, and allowed no objection or limitation. With 
him, of course, ecclesiastical authority was the highest of all. 
He was religious, superficial, and correct on this point as on 
all. In his eyes, a priest was a spirit who never errs; a nun, 
a creature who does not sin. Theirs were souls walled up 
against the world, with only one door, which never opened 
except to let truth pass out. On seeing the sister, his first 
movement was to withdraw; but he had another duty, too, 
which imperiously urged him in an opposite direction. His 
second impulse was to remain and to venture at least one 
question. Sister Simplicity had never told a falsehood in 
her life. Javert was aware of this and especially revered her 
for it. r 

*¢ Sister,’ he asked, “* are you alone in the room? 

There was a terrible moment, during which the old servant 
felt as if she were going to faint. The sister raised her eyes 
and said, “ Yes.” 

“Then,” continued Javert, “ I beg your pardon for insist- 
ing, but it is my duty. You have not seen this evening a per- 
son, a man who has escaped, and for whom we are searching, 
— that Jean Valjean? Have you seen him? ” 

The sister answered, * No.” 

She had told two lies, one on top of the other, without hesi- 
tation, rapidly, as if sacrificing herself. 


99 


FANTINE 825 


“I beg your pardon,” said Javert; and he withdrew with 
a deep bow. 

Oh, holy woman, it is many years since you were on this 
earth. You have rejoined in the light your sister virgins 
and your brother angels. May this lie be placed to your 
credit in paradise! 

The sister’s assertion was so decisive for Javert that he did 
not notice the singular fact of the candle which was just 
blown out, and still smoked on the table. 

An hour later a’man, making his way through the fog, 
was hurrying away from M in the direction of Paris. 
This man was Jean Valjean; and it was proved by the testi- 
mony of two or three carriers who met him, that he was carry- 
ing a bundle, and was dressed in a blouse. Where did he get 
that blouse? It was never known; but, a few days before, 
an old workman had died in the infirmary of the factory, leav- 
ing nothing but his blouse. It might have been that one. 

One last word about Fantine. We have all one mother,— 
the earth; and Fantine was given back to that mother. The 
priest thought he was doing his duty, and perhaps did it, in 
keeping as much money as he possibly could out of what 
Jean Valjean left him for the poor. After all, whose busi- 
ness was it? A convict and a street-walker. Hence he ‘sim- 
plified Fantine’s interment, and reduced. it to what is called “a 
pauper’s grave.” Fantine was therefore interred in the free 
corner of the cemetery, which belongs to everybody and ta no- 
body, and where the poor are lost. Fortunately, God knows 
where to look for a soul. Fantine was laid in the shade among 
a pile of promiscuous bones in a pauper’s grave. Her tomb 


was like her bed. 





END OF VOL. I. 




















( ‘ 












Si ea ty AE Mia Mer RUSS We BE OR 
eR Se, . 5 ha Ne mx 2. SSP Z 
MY. Cah Ue pp BSc 
“4 =f, r . &lt;* 0 ¥ : 5 . 
ae) Po eE rE Cera 
: — Pe i) Pas 
oe : - se ioe Sie * 
cS 4 Fat 
. &gt;. + i 









cee ! 


“PRAT 





. | 4 
es JAN.2 8 1989 
Se ‘ Viui vs aa Uti KODE 


FERRO spores) 5) LIBRARY 
re es PRRATT 
Beene AR “Sigg 
ie | RATS 
pees) 2 AUG.2 8 18 
ety 5 - (989. 

Bike Re, 


Ea 







st 











&lt; wth, x 


a 


“LAP 
.*) 


“Se 7 i eo 


Abd 


Ne, 


te ey 
ye s+ 
+ fo 


= ses = 
aed a4 pe 


SSVI Beet 


7 3st, Z ‘sti &amp; 


a: 
meng: 5 
ad «aw 
X al 
est “ad 


acd 
ie 
a A 


ea 


ae 
~~ a ow « 


See a Se 
woe. we gwe™ 
we ee =~ 
ieesse 
i ee em 











3 - 
av 


, i ie eS nalcide dy * _ 
oi + hte rite "s, rs tent st my v ass fas 
i i re (eh . etl J atc i =rhs iy i ui f. 
y . Hiss nf ; anit ak: fet Sie My ix Lane je i} ae \ +. 
Metals {it} es re het hy tea - ie ste ie | 
aan yp Hi _ =Sf aK), tp ails a ey nl te j 
ve nih Wee anette wy} ‘ 45 } 
ealot i ee teen’ hess al aoe 


Wea 5 ne A we ete . 
tae seers foe) Misi tang i) x : 
















Mesiiiet 
eal ah 





San as tear wen 
bin Ee ith ie ate ees = al he i hel : aly 4 uit be a 
Ge ARE Yosties l sel Sor iF et eit Ho ah. 
tea fae Acai as deal ican ey! APE 
As : aie aban area Naan 4. sels ras rg ‘fl aniltta i] : 
sp bag ele alae lie Ho fe che fie iy pally ar a 
Niger ni 4, ah Tabet il 40" ' nt aie oy) Ghd 
; tie i ela PON OR een aay i ae 
) iit . reat Path ns! Ph if Diaiheie i ee tele ny ui Biter ape 
@ (ey wialal serie OH an ie 


Hentai: oe Aah Pea ae Subsite Si aR 3 
a i Al ty sii Baus alias "ies Po aa ree an My Ue Aint } -_- 
is saith *) of m mn pa i] Tne Ab -f 7 ify 
oe i ee ie Ms ie te! We Siena) V3 a pe, 
asiali eee SR ON GEN ae 

ia y Pai Y te i aoe Nt ing et iG a oe Ve NA Seah : 
i i thee li ili jie ais acces , 4 prhoge aN Ma ay } sy 
ke 
ae oH a suits Het fete Al, pe caies sper oy slaty sees is tet 
Piss as ele Me ‘y a if nlBlReh ties bales Ne Bed Hise Wal 

tity; es , sata ah ete SE “eae ‘ ae as te Ne t ‘i 
ieee Ht ae BP AA NM Ne ec Aha 


f beat imho, ae, a sth ; i! , , 
; ( ee o ti Ht re ay Wik Ke de i, ibe Me jee ea ali I : iv *) u, ’ 





Tee 


pega Stile iene eects Mies TRU 


















, 
‘a i asi aS, Gent sine Atm ey Pisa ee oy tO | 
Ink yes | vp Lt Le } “ 
ee Ae slic setae ‘, HAs So ssa (Pyisaees ‘ aye ty i Ai ‘i i iF hs zs ‘5 . 
geet: - sae 4h Pi smouatetata : Ae ima i me 
nt iteet ee toa = \ ont &amp; ALP eo eh a Feel eati | 
aa : “ark 53 hs ty at ae iB a pbetnay baht ie i uss ’. 
aie Res iat AH iat ee te TAL Te Be sy (ene ss ue ’ \ aT oT ’ tat 
ee wit Lal wt ais Mii, pr “be pasar, re oc 
Ea Mae es ie ee Aah “ait sdinteht init are) (ie sti 
&gt; a ae ii tad ait pula 5 Perera. if qlee =a etc = } ‘4 be “| Vy “tt 
see © “hoa noah: yee sa ae : Peace ‘ 
veal we ” patie Rae i fey 4h ie " 


os Sl Roe 
] 


oe ee Ae Leanna 


Gis = | 

Ae ae ee eat - we ee ail ra a Hy ti head fis. ART ihe i iy: le if v1 u 

5 2 Pa on ii ¢ MS 5% Ti i aa: 4) ye te r i atl: " &gt;, 
hee i RYT : - “thy 
a i os i eiigat tie isecent hem 


a ie Ve 
ie mai it nes a or eps nveiet ants as site ates LIBS J i 1 : Hh is 
re , “ ite Saito b 1/4) 
Hemet oikis AG a” alle | ie ot sins A ies Pa coat yt i; te ” Ne 1 ' 
ne oye Ps Wil c ni Lite un arene F Paes We ap sles 7 re Fc ait ee INET * tr i at s4tfas 
Ae Spat re 1 Mae “Ati ai Saeittie ond) engih uF i oF, ar ere 4 a 


ca ven Bry Rdg el Ts ipuive 

sey Sesita ie ‘: ee " Hoth) rr ey BAAeN Ka! Werte. 
sgh Ae ‘ wi in rei ay 3 is aN +) etn 3} a a Ths, Tees Ly oe es eats ) fat 15 
r _ 


; 
. et P Ln wel 
Hee le My iy wats EM ee) (asa Oy eres eae | or fi a 
Ay Oy; ob ye ees Mas 5 Aes ' AE P| }! iy 
e Palle na a ui ink es ate eRe A ate atte ro RL 
Be sire ant, AH ni i ue wre 8 ie shes a ete 255) Ade + eae is 5 
a aa) ta tally are i ie : Ha ee . RR: ; 
(43 Shy" aya +4 oe Ay aula itisy! =I = “is = wins y Resees y 


dal he 
rb 












‘ 
Z Bul wo ' 4] ro 4 ae (a a - : 4 iv ay uu hb d 
Sable es foie erat ‘ at hs sills om iS La retty : cee Rapin | 
Fie West seak sane ees ae 
t “Alcatel Aly is sled pare i ais aria Rh s ae Y a Mg tltihe . 
Gn alana iti osci ce tlianao unital austen Cnt ani Rit 3 
: &gt; Vite Me be) ty te , op fates + si “ 2 5a tra Oye wali 2 
anole ty aah Ni foeith ge ities ' i a aout int waa) aplirs Ce mies Het Ache vi ‘ ; 2 
’ +o &gt; iin Wt a afi ahaa » 5) a fl are ees “) ifalt, hos At bd és othe shy V4 gli : “ 
iy ae , 1] V i i. a HI st) if { ' att : a “ SYS “, le ; Aol yee ene yak a . j of 
tet Trealth ah eth Hiei d' ‘ er USistrs chia ' wis, ae shes Di ~ vy 4 Ff . ‘ 
yy aT rh Ht A . r . | mo ity el tedet te oe i ¥ r yet Payee bl tte i ~) J i a uy ~ fri &lt; hi 
mihi bali aisha wie iN sone SAMA pe Sb es Bb Bae ray paeens | ‘ 
MTAG e yor v roy egies " wet f oe Vi Wy oe 2, iy ~ i 
| ty aly ies SP ey: (ea 1 a ue Wik Ria oe dats ie ath eter 4 “LG MASE he ao