LES MISERABLES


BY 

VICTOR HUGO 


WARD, LOCK &amp; CO., LIMITED 
LONDON AND MELBOURNE 


1845 



Printed In Great Britain by Butier &amp; Tanner Ltd., Frame and London 



LES MISERABLES 


CHAPTER I 

In 1815 M. Cliciiies Fran 9 ois Bienvenu Myriel was Bishop 

of D . He was a man of about seventy-five years of age, 

and had held the see of D since 1806. He was the son 

of a councillor of the Aix Parliament. It was said that his 
father, who intended that he should be his successor, married 
him at the age of eighteen or twenty, according to a not 
uncommon custom in parliamentary families. Charles Myriel, 
in spite of this marriage (so people said), had been the cause 
of much tattle. He was well built, though of short stature 
elegant, graceful, and witty ; and the earlier part of his life 
was devoted to the world and to gallantry. The Revolution 
came, events hurried on, and the parliamentary families, 
decimated {viui.l\unted down, became dispersed. M. Charles 
Myriel ‘efnigrated to Italy in the early part of the Revolution, 
and his wife, who had been long sufiering from a chest com- 
plaint, 'died there, leaving no chUdren. What next took place 
in M. Myriel's destiny ? No one could have answered this 
question; all that was known was that when he returned 
from Italy he was a priest. 

In 1804 M. Myriel was CurA of B (Brignolles). Ho 

was already aged, anch lived in gteat retirement. He had 

arrived at D , accompanied by an old maid. Mile Bap- 

tistine, who was his sister, and ten years vounger than him- 
self. Their anly servant was a female of the same age as 
Mademoiselle, of the name of Madame Magloire, who, after 
having been the servant of M. le CurA, now assumed the 
double title of waiting-woman to Mademoiselle, and house- 
keeper to Monseigneur. Mile Baptistine was a tall, pale, 
slim, gentle person ; the ideal of what the word respectable 
expresses, for it seems necessary for a woman to be a mother 
in order to be venerable. She had never been pretty, but 
her whole life, which had been but a succession of pious works, 



6 


LES MISERABLES 


had eventually cast over her a species of brightness, and’ in 
growing older she had acquired ^hat may be calM the beaifby 
of goodness. What had been thinness in her youth had 
become in her maturity transparency, and through this trans- 
parency the angel could be seen. Madame Magloire was m 
fair, plump, busy little body, always short of breath, — in 
the first place, through her activity, and, secondly, in eon- 
sequence of an asthma. 

On his arrival M. Myriel was installed in his episcopal palace 
with all the honours allotted by the imperial decrees, which 
classify the Bishop immediately after a Major-General. The 
Mayor and the President paid him the first visit, and he on 
his side paid the first visit to the General and the Prefect. 
When the installation ws ended the town waited to see its 
bishop at work. 

The Episcopal Palace of D was a spacious, handsome 

mansion, built at the beginning of the last century. The 
hospital was a small single-storeyed house with a little garden. 
Three days after his arrival the Bishop visited it, and seeing 
how confined the wards were, he at once resolved to instal 
the patients in the palace and himself in the hospital. 

M. Myriel had no property, as his family ha^ been ruined 
by the Revolution. His sister had an ailnmlyo?TJOWrancs, 
which had sufficed at the curacy for personal expenses. M. 
Myriel, as Bishop, received from the State 15,000 francs a 
year, the employment of which sum he- once for all settlecf 
in the following way. We copy here a note in his own hand- 
writing. 

** THE REGULATION OF MY HOUSEHOLD EXPENSES. 


For the little Seminary, 1500 fres. Congregation of* the 
^ssion, 100 fres. The Lazarists of Montdidier, 100 fres. 
Seminary of Foreign Missions at Paris, 200 frqy Cemgrega- 
tion of the Holy Ghost, 150 fres. Religious establishments 
e Holy Land, 100 fres. Societies of Maternal Charity, 
^ fres. Additional for the one at'Arles, 60 fres. Works 
for improvemc^ of prisons, 400 fres. Relief and deliverance 

of fathers imprisoned 
maat™ ^ ^ Salary of poor school- 

thA TTnnoii 2000 fres. Distribution of grain in 

the Upper Alps. 100 fres. Ladies' Society for gratuitous 



LES MISEBABLES 


7 


instruction of poor girls at D , Manosque, and Sisteron, 

18D0 frcs. IfoT the poor, 6(XS) free. Personal expenses, 1000 
fres. — ^Total,* 16,000 frcs." 

During the whole time he held the see of D , M. Myriel 

^ade no change in this arrangement. He called this, as we 
see, regulating his household expenses. The arrangement 
was accepted with a smile by Mile Baptistine, for that sainted 
woman regarded M. Myriel at once as her brother and her 
bishop ; her friend according to nature, her superior according 
to the Church. She loved and venerated him in the simplest 
way. When he spoke she bowed, when he acted she assented. 
The servant alone, Madame Magloire, murmured a little. 
The Bishop, it will have been noticed, only reserved 1000 
francs, and on this sum, with Mile Baptistine's pension, these 
two old women and old man lived. And when a village cur6 

came to D , the Bishop managed to regale him, thanks 

to the strict economy of Madame Magloire and the sensible 
management of Mile Baptistine. 

Such was M. Myriers budget. As for the accidental receipts, 
such as fees for bans, cl^stenings, consecrating churches 
or chapels, marriages, etc., the Bishop collected them from 
the rich witl^sc^much the more eagerness because he distri- 
buted them to the poor. In a short time the monetary 
offerings became augmented. The Bishop in less than a 
j^ear became the treasurer of all charity and the cashier of 
all distress. Considerable sums passed through his hands, 
but nothing could induce him to make any change in his mode 
of life,* or add the slightest superfluity to his expenditure. 

The Bishop, who had converted even his coach into alms, 

did not the less make his visitations. The diocese of D 

is fatiguing ; there are few plains and many mountains, and 
hardly any roads : twenty-two curacies, forty-one vicarages, 
and tM hundred and eighty-five chapels of ease. It was 
a task to visit all these, but the Bishop managed it. He 
went on foot when the place was near, in a calash when it 
was in the plain, and in a cacolet when it was in the mountains. 
The two old females generally accompanied him, but when 
the journey was too wearying for them he went alone. 

One day he arrived at Senez, which is an old Episcopal 
town, mounted on a donkey. The Mayor of the city came to 
receive him at the door of the Bishop’s Palace, and saw him 



8 


LES MISEBABLES 


dismount with scandalized ey^. A few cits were laughing 
round him. “ M. Mayor and gentlemen/' the B^hop said, ** I 
sec what it is that scandalizes you. You consider it great 
pride for a poor priest to ride an animal which our Saviour 
once upon a time bestrode. I did so through necessity, i 
assure you, and not through vanity. 

The Bishop's conversation was affable and lively. * He 
condescended to the level of the two females who spent their 
life near him, and when he laughed it was a schoolboy's laugh. 
Madame Magloire was fond of calling him “ Your Grandeur." 
One day he rose from his easy chair and went to fetch a book 
from his library : as it was on one of the top shelves, and as 
the Bishop was short, he could not reach it. “ Madame 
Magloire," he said, “ brmg mo a chair, for my Grandeur does 
not rise to that shelf." 

He displayed at times a gentle raillery, which nearly always 
contained a serious meaning. During one Lent a young 

vicar came to D and preached at the cathedral. Ho 

was rather eloquent, and the subject of his sermon was charity. 
He invited the rich to give to the needy in order to escape 
hell, which he painted in the most frightful way he could, 
and reach paradise, which he made desirabje j md dm rming. 
There was among the congregation a rich, retired mStchant, 
somewhat of a ursurcr, who had acquired £80,000 by manu- 
facturing coarse cloths, serges, and caddis. In his whole life- 
time M. G^borand had never given alms to a beggar, but 
after this sermon it was remarked that he gave every Sunday 
a halfpenny to the old women begging at the cathedAl gate. 
There were six of them to share it. One day the Bishop 
saw him bestowing his charity, and ^id to his sister, with a 
smile, “ Look at M. G6borand buying a halfpennyworth of 
paradise." 

A Provencal by birth, he easily accustomed iimsdtf to all 
the dialects of the South : this greatly pleased the people, 
^d had done no little in securing hirp admission to all minds. 
He was, as it were, at home in the hut and on the mountain. 
He could say the grandest things in the most vulgar idioms, 
and as ho spoke all languages he entered all hearts. How- 
ever, he was the same to people of fashion as to the lower 
classes. 

He had a strange manner, peculiarly his own, of judging 



LES MISERABLES 


9 


things. 1 suspect that he obtained it from the Gospels. He 
one day he^d in a drawingroom the story of a trial which 
was shortly to take place. A wretched man, through love of 
a woman and a child he had by her, having exhausted his 
•resources, coined false money, which at that period was an 
oilence punished by death. The woman was arrested while 
issuing the first false piece manufactured by the man. She 
was detained, but there was no proof against her. She alone 
could charge her lover and ruin him by confessing. She 
denied. They pressed her, but she adhered to her denial. 
Upon this, the Royal Procureur had an idea : he feigned 
infidelity on the lover's part, and contrived, by cleverly pre- 
senting the woman with fragments of letters, to persuade her 
that she had a rival, and that the, man was deceiving her. 
Then, exasperated by jealousy, she denounced her lover, 
confessed everything, proved everything. The man was 
ruined, and would shortly be tried with his accomplice at Aix. 
The story was told, and everybody was delighted at the magis- 
trate's cleverness. By bringing jealousy into play he 
brought out the truth through passion, and obtained justice 
through revenge. The Bishop listened to all this in silence, 
and when it^as ended he asked : “ Where will this man and 
woman be tried ? '* At the assizes." Then he continued, 
** And where will the Royal Procureur be tried I " 

M. Myriel might be called at any hour to the bed-side of 
^hc sick and the dying. He was not ignorant that his greatest 
duty and greatest labour lay there. Widowed or orphaned 
famiiioe had no occasion to send for him, for he came of him- 
self. He had the art of sitting down and holding his tongue 
for hours by the side o&amp;a man who* had lost the wife he loved, 
or of a mother bereaved of her child. As ho knew the time 
to be silent, he also knew the time to speak. What an admir- 
able co&lt;Lsoler|,he was ! he did not try to efiace grief by oblivion, 
but to aggrandize and dignify it by hope. He would say : 
" Take care of the way in which you turn to the dead. Do 
not think of that which perishes. Look fixedly, and you 
will perceive the living light of your beloved dead in heaven." 
He knew that belief is healthy, and he sought to counsel 
and calm the desperate man by pointing out to him the 
resigned man, and to transform the grief that gazes at a grave 
by showing it the grief that looks at a star. 



10 


LES MISERABLBS 


M. Myriel's domestic life was full of the same thoughts 
as his public life. To one capable of inspectiifg it closely, 
the voluntary poverty in which the Bishop lived would have 
been a solemn and charming spectacle. Like all old men, 
and like most thinkers, he slept little, but that short sleep* 
was deep. In the morning he remained in contemplation 
for an hour, and then read mass either at the cathedral- or 
in his house. Mass over, he breakfasted on rye bread dipped 
in the milk of his own cows. 

The time which the afflicted, the sick, and the needy left 
him he gave to work. Sometimes he hoed in his garden, at 
others he read and wrote. He had only one name for both 
sorts of labour, he called them gardening. “ The mind is a 
garden,” he would say. • 

Toward mid-day, when the weather was fine, he went out 
and walked in the country or the town, frequently entering 
the cottages. He could be seen walking alone in deep thought, 
looking down, leaning on his long cane, dressed in his violet 
wadded and warm great-coat, with his violet stockings thrust 
into clumsy shoes, and wearing his flat hat, through each 
corner of which were passed three golden acorns as tassels. 
It was a festival wherever he appeared, it seejped as if his 
passing had something warming and luminous about’ it ; old 
men and children came to the door to greet the Bishop as they 
did the sun. He blessed them and they blessed him, and 
his house was pointed out to anybody who was in want of 
anything. 

The house the Bishop resided in consisted of a ground 
floor and one above it, three rooms on the ground, three bed- 
rooms on the first floor, and above thena a store-room. Behind 
the house was a quarter of an acre of garden. The iiwo 
females occupied the first floor, and the Bishop lodged below. 
The first room, which opened on the street, q§rved«him as 
dining-room, the second as bed-room, the third as oratory. 
You could not get out of the oratory without passing through 
the bed-room, or out of the bed-room twithout passing through 
the sittmg-room. At the end of the oratory was a closed alcove 
with a bed, for any one who stayed the night, and the Bishop 
onered this bed to country cur^ whom business or the calls 
of their pansh brought to D . 

There was also in the garden a stable which had been the 



LES MISERABLES 


11 


old hospital- kitchen, and in jprhich the Bishop kept two cows. 
Whatever t)ie quantity of milk they yielded, he invariably 
sent one half every morning to the hospital patients. “ I am 
paying my tithes," he was wont to say. 

• Ilis room was rather spacious, and very difficult to heat 

in the cold weather. As wood is excessively dear at D , 

he* hit on the idea of partitioning off with planks a portion 
of the cow-house. Here he spent his evenings during the 
great frosts, and called it his “ winter drawing-room." In 
this room, as in the dining-room, there was no other furniture 
but a square deal table and four straw chairs. The dining- 
room was also adorned with an old buffet stained to imitate 
rosewood. The Bishop had made the altar which decorated 
his oratory out of a similar buffet, suitably covered with 
white cloths and imitation lace. His rich penitents and 

the religious ladies of D had often subscribed to pay for a 

handsome new altar for Monseigneur's oratory ; each time 
he took the money and gave it to the poor. “ The finest of 
all altars," he would say, “ is the soul of an unhappy man 
who is consoled and thanks God." 

Nothing more simple can be imagined than the Bishop’s 
bed-room. A long window opening on the garden ; opposite 
the bed, an iron hospital bed with a canopy of green serge ; 
in the shadow of the bed, behind a curtain, toilet articles, 
jstill rfevealing the old elegant habits of the man of fashion ; 
two doors, one near the chimney leading to the oratory, the 
other near the library leading to the dining-room. The 
library* was a large glass-case full of books; the chimney of 
wood, painted to imitate marble, was habitually fireless ; in 
the chimney were a pair of iron andirons ornamented with 
two vases, displapng garlands and grooves which had once 
been silvered, which was a species of episcopal luxury ; over 
the chflnney®. crucifix of unsilvered copper fastened to thread- 
bare black velvet, in a frame which had lost its gilding ; near 
the window was a large table with an inkstand, loaded with 
irregularly arranged papers and heavy tomes ; before the 
table the straw arm-chair ; in front of the bed a priedieu 
borrowed from the oratory. 

He had at his window an antique curtain of heavy woollen 
stuff, which had grown so old that Madame Magloire, in 
order to avoid the expense of a new one, was obliged to make 



10 


LES MISERABLES 


M. Myriers domestic life was full of the same thoughts 
as his public life. To one cap&amp;ble of inspectirfg it closely, 
the voluntary poverty in which the Bishop lived would have 
been a solemn and charming spectacle. Like all old men, 
and like most thinkers, he slept little, but that short sloop* 
was deep. In the morning he remained in contemplation 
for an hour, and then read mass either at the cathedral- or 
in his house. Mass over, he breakfasted on rye bread dipped 
in the milk of his own cows. 

The time which the afflicted, the sick, and the needy left 
him he gave to work. Sometimes he hoed in his garden, at 
others he read and wrote. He had only one name for both 
sorts of labour, he called them gardening. “The mind is a 
garden,” he would say. • 

Toward mid-day, when the weather was fine, he went out 
and walked in the country or the town, frequently entering 
the cottages. He could be seen walking alone in deep thought, 
looking down, leaning on his long cane, dressed in his violet 
wadded and warm great-coat, with his violet stockings thrust 
into clumsy shoes, and wearing his flat hat, through each 
corner of which were passed three golden acorns as tassels. 
It was a festival wherever he appeared, it seejjied as if his 
passing had something warming and luminous about' it ; old 
men and children came to the door to greet the Bishop as they 
did the sun. He blessed them and they blessed him, and 
his house was pointed out to anybody who was in want of 
anything. 

The house the Bishop resided in consisted of a ^ound 
floor and one above it, three rooms on the ground, three bed- 
rooms on the first floor, and above them a store-room. Behind 
the house was a quarter of an acre of garden. The two 
females occupied the first floor, and the Bishop lodged below. 
The first room, which opened on the street, q^rvedchim as 
dining-room, the second as bed-room, the third as oratory. 
You could not get out of the oratory without passing through 
the bed-room, or out of the bed-room without passing through 
the sitting-room. At the end of the oratory was a closed alcove 
with a bed, for any one who stayed the night, and the Bishop 
oflered this bed to country cures whom business or the calls 
of their parish brought to D . 

There was also in the garden a stable which had been the 



LES MISERABLES 


11 


old hospitals kitchen, and in j^hich the Bishop kept two cows. 
Whatever t)ie quantity of milk they yielded, he invariably 
sent one half every morning to the hospital patients. “ I am 
paying my tithes," he was wont to say. 

• His room was rather spacious, and very difficult to heat 

in the cold weatlier. As wood is excessively dear at D , 

he* hit on the idea of partitioning oft with planks a portion 
of the cow-house. Here he spent his evenings during the 
great frosts, and called it his “ winter drawing-room." In 
this room, as in the dining-room, there was no other furniture 
but a square deal table and four straw chairs. The dining- 
room was also adorned with an old buffet stained to imitate 
rosewood. The Bishop had made the altar which decorated 
his oratory out of a similar buffet, suitably covered with 
white cloths and imitation lace. His rich penitents and 

the religious ladies of D bad often subscribed to pay for a 

handsome new altar for Monseigneur's oratory ; each time 
he took the money and gave it to the poor. “ The finest of 
all altars," he would say, ‘‘ is the soul of an unhappy man 
who is consoled and thanks God." 

Nothing more simple can be imagined than the Bishop's 
bed-room. A long window opening on the garden ; opposite 
the bed, an iron hospital bed with a canopy of green serge ; 
in tlie shadow of the bed, behind a curtain, toilet articles, 
jstill rfevealing the old elegant habits of the man of fashion ; 
two doors, one near the chimney leading to the oratory, the 
other near the library leading to the dining-room. The 
librar^^was a large glass-case full of books ; the chimney of 
wood, painted to imitate marble, was habitually fireless ; in 
the chimney w^ere a pftir of iron andirons ornamented with 
two vases, displaying garlands and grooves which had once 
been silvered, which was a species of episcopal luxury ; over 
the chftnneyjB crucifix of unsilvered copper fastened to thread- 
bare black velvet, in a frame which had lost its gilding ; near 
the window was a large table with an inkstand, loaded with 
irregularly arranged papers and heavy tomes ; before the 
table the straw arm-chair; in front of the bed a priedieu 
borrowed from the oratory. 

He had at his window an antique curtain of heavy woollen 
stuff, which had grown so old that Madame Magloire, in 
order to avoid the expense of a new one, was obliged to make 



12 


LES MISERABLES 


a large seam in the very middl^of it. The seam formed a 
cross, and the Bishop often drew attention tot it. “ How 
pleasant that is," he would say. All the rooms in the house, 
ground floor and first floor, were whitewashed, which is a 
barrack and hospital fashion. Still, some years later, Madame • 
Magloire discovered, as we shall see further on, paintings 
under the whitewashed paper, in Mile Baptistine's bed-roohi. 
The rooms were paved with red bricks which were washed 
every week, and there were straw mats in front of all the 
beds. This house, moreover, managed by two females, was 
exquisitely clean from top to bottom: this was the only 
luxury the Bishop allowed himself, for, as ho said, “ It takes 
nothing from the poor." We must allow, however, that of 
the old property there still remained six silver spoons and 
forks and a soup ladle, which Madame Magloire daily saw 
with delight shining splendidly on the coarse table cloth. 

And as we are here depicting the Bishop of D as he was, 

we must add that he had said, more than once, “ I do not 
think I could give up eating with silver." To this plate must 
be added two heavy candlesticks of massive silver, which the 
Bishop inherited from a great-aunt. These branched candle- 
sticks each held two wax candles, and usually figured on the 
Bishop's chimney. When he had any one to dinner Madame 
Magloire lit the candles and placed the two candlesticks on 
the table. There was in the Bishop’s bed-room, at the head^ 
of his bed, a small cupboard in the wall in which Madame 
Magloire each night placed the plate and the large ladle ; I 
am bound to add that the key was never taken out? 

The house had not a single door that locked. The door 
of the dining-room, which opened right on the cathedral 
square, has formerly been adorned with bolts and locks like 
a prison gate. The Bishop had all this iron removed, and 
the door was only hasped either night or day : th^ first^asser- 
by, no matter the hour, had only to push it. At the outset 
the two females had been greatly alarmed by this never-closed 
door ; but the Bishop said to them, ** Have bolts placed 
on the doors of your rooms if you like." In the end they 
shared his confidence, or at least aflected to do so : Madame 
Magloire alone was from time to time alarmed. As regards 
the Bishop, his idea is explained, or at least indicated, by &lt; 
these three lines, which he wrote on the margin of a Bible : 



LES MISERABLES 


13 


•* This is the distinction : the physician's doors must never 
be closed, Jhe priest's door must always be open." Else- 
where he also wrote : " Do not ask the name of the man 
who seeks a bed from you, for it is before all the man whom 
•his name embarrasses that needs an asylum." 

To give an idea of the domestic life of the Bishop of D , 

and the manner in which these two saintly women subordinated 
their actions, their thoughts, even their feminine instincts, 
w^hich were easily startled, to the habits and intentions of 
the Bishop, before he required to express them in words, 
we cannot do better than copy here a letter from Mile Ba^ 
tistine to the Viscountess de Boischcvron, her friend of child- 
hood. This letter is in our possession. 

** D ■■ IGth Dec., 18 • 

“ My dear Madam, — Not a day passes in which we do 
not talk about you. That is our general habit, but there is 
an extra reason at present. Just imagine that, in washing 
and dusting the ceilings and walls, Madame Magloire has 
made a discovery, and now our two rooms papered with old 
white-washed paper would not disgrace a chateau like yours. 
Madame M^loire has torn down all the paper, and there are 
things under it. My sitting-room, in which there was no 
furniture, and in which we used to hang up the linen to dry, 
is fifteen feet in height, eighteen wide, and has a ceiling which 
*was once gilded, and rafters, as in your house. It was covered 
with canvas during the time this mansion was a hospital. 
But itfis my bed-room, you should see; Madame Magloire 
has discovered, under at least ten layers of paper, paintings 
which, though not excellent, are endurable. There is Tele- 
mathus dubbed a knight by Minerva ; and there he is again 
in the gardens : I forget their names, but where the Roman 
ladies only went for a single night. What can I tell you I 
I have Roman ladies (here an illegible word), and so on. Madame 
Magloire has got it all straight. This summer she intends 
to repair a little damage, re-varnish it all, and my bed-room 
will be a real museum. She has also found in a corner of 
the garret two consoles in the old fashion ; they want twelve 
francs to regild them, but it is better to give that sum to the 
poor ; besides, they are frightfully ugly, and I should prefer 
a round mahogany table. 



14 


LES MISERABLES 


** I am very happy, for my brother is so good ; he gives 
all he has to the sick and the poor, and we are 4ften greatly 
pressed. The country is hard in winter, and something must 
be done for those who are in w’ant. We are almost liglited 
and warmed, and, as you can see, that is a great comfort. • 
My brother has peculiar habits ; when he does talk, he says 
‘ that a bishop shorld be so.' Just imagine that the house 
door is never closed : any one who likes can come in, and is 
at once in my brother's presence. He fears nothing, not 
even night ; and lie says that is his way of showing his bravery. 
He does not wish me to feel alarmed for him, or for Madame 


Magloire to do so ; he exposes himself to all dangers, and 
does not wish us to appear as if w’e even noticed it. We 
must understand him. He goes out in the rain, he wades 
through the water, and travels in winter. He is not afraid 
of the night, suspicious roads, or encounters. Last year he 
went all alone into a country of robbers, for he would not 
take us with him. He stayed aw'ay a whole fortnight, and 
folk thought him dead, but he came back all right, and said, 
‘ Here's the way in which I was robbed,' and he opened a 
chest full of all the treasures of Embrun Cathedral, which 
the robbers had given him. That time I couli not refrain 
from scolding him a little, but w'as careful only to speak when 
the wheels made a noise, so that no one could hear me. 


^ At first I said to myself, there is no danger that checks 
him, and he is terrible ; but at present I have grown ac-* 
customed to it. I make Madame Magloire a sign not to 
annoy him, and he risks his life as he pleases. 1 tr«?^ry off 
Magloire, go to my bed-room, pray for him, and fall asleep. 

I am tranquil because I know that ifmny harm happened to 
him it would be the death of me. I shall go to heaven \Cith 
my brother and my bishop. Madame Magloire has had 
^eater difficulty than myself in accustoming hesscif te what 
she calls his imprudence, but at present she has learnt to put 
up with it. We both pray ; we are terrified together, and 
tall asleep. If the Fiend were to enter the house no one 
would try to stop hini, and after all what have we to fear in 
this house ? There is always some one with us who is the 
stronger, the demon may pass by, but our Lord lives in it. 
That IS enough for me, and my brother no longer requires to 
say a word to me. I understand him without his speaking, 



LES MISEBABLES 


15 


arid we Ica'^e ourselves in t]je hands of Providence, for that 
ii^ the way ij which you must behave to a man who has grand- 
eur in his soul.'^ 

• As we have seen, prayer, celebration of the Mass, alms- 
giving, consoling the afflicted, tilling a patch of ground, 
frugality, hospitality, self-denial, confidence, study, and la- 
bour, filled every day of his life. Filled is the exact word, 
and certainly the Bishop's day was full of good thoughts, 
good words, and good actions. Still, it was not complete. 
If cold or wet weather prevented him from spending an hour 
or two in the garden before going to bed after the two fe- 
males had retired, it seemed as it were a species of rite of his 
to prepare himself for sleep by meditation, in the presence of 
the grand spectacle of the heavens by night. At times, even 
at an advanced hour of night, if the old maids were not asleep, 
they heard him slowly pacing the walks. He was then alone 
with himself, contemplative, peaceful, adoring, comparing the 
serenity of his heart with that of eether, affected in the dark- 
ness by the visible splendour of the constellations, and the 
invisible splendour of God, and opening his soul to thoughts 
which fall from the unknown. At such moments, offering 
up his heart at the hour when the nocturnal flowers offer up 
their perfumes, he could not have said himself, possibly, what 
was passing in his mind ; but he felt something fly out of 
^im and something descend into him. 

He dreamed of the grandeur and presence of God ; of 
future eternity, that strange mystery; of past eternity, that 
even stranger mystery ; of all the infinities which buried 
themselves before his«'eyes in all directions : and without 
seeking to comprehend the incomprehensible, he gazed at it. 
He did not study God ; he was dazzled by Him. He con- 
sidered this#magnificent concourse of atoms w^hich reveals 
forces, creates individualities in unity, proportions in space, 
innumerability in the Infinite, and through light produces 
beauty. Such a concourse incessantly takes place, and is 
dissolved again, and hence come life and death. 

He would sit down on a wood bench with his back against 
a rickety trellis, and gaze at the stars through the stunted 
sickly profiles of his fruit trees. This quarter of an acre, so 
poorly planted, and so encumbered with sheds and out-housec^ 



16 


LES MISEBABLES 


was deal to him, and was 8u£|cient for him. .What more 
was wanting to tWs aged man, who divided the fcisuie of his 
life, which knew so little leisure, between gardening by day 
and contemplation by night 1 Was not this limited enclosure 
with the sky for its roof sufficient for him to be able to adore* 
God by turns in His most delicious and most sublime works ? 
Was not this everything, in fact ? and what could be desired 
beyond ? A small garden to walk about in, and immensity 
to dream in ; at his feet, what can be cultivated and gathered ; 
over his head, what can be studied and meditated ; on the 
earth a few flowers, and all the stars in the heavens. 


At the beginning of October, 1816, and about an hour 
before sunset, a man travelling on foot entered the little 
town of D— — . The few inhabitants who were at the moment 
at their windows or doors, regarded this traveller with a 
species of anxiety. It would be difficult to meet a way- 
farer of more wretched appearance ; ho was a man of middle 
height, muscular and robust, and in the full vigour of life. 
He might be forty-six to forty-eight years of age. A cap 
with a leather peak partly concealed his sunburnt face, down 
wtach the perspiration streamed. His sliirt of coarse yellow 
raliOT, fastened at the neck by a small silver anohor, allowed 
nis hairy chest to be seen ; he had on a neck-cloth twisted 
like a rope, trowsers of blue ticking worn and threadbare, 
white at one knee and tom at the other ; an old gray nigged 
bloiMo patched at one elbow with a rag of green cloth ; on* 

iticki? tlT® knapsack, and a large knotty 

iMn^h^. 1 ^^ stocbngless feet were thrt»t into 

^n-shod shoes, his hair was cut close, and his beard large. 

wSnrsoIdn ’ “d the dust, added 

was mif ^1 his wretched appearance. His hair 

togrow a liSe“and?rl'"‘^ bristling, for it was beginning 
time The man m ^ been cut for some 

s“med veryTed day. for ho 

lower ® ^ suburb at the 

on tho Gassendi Bonlnv^^ ’^“der the trees 

at the end of the walk Si mmf fountain 

the chUdren that foUowed him ® "'^7 thirsty, for 

at the fountain on 



LES MISERABLES 


17 


ceeded to tlie Mayor's office^ He went in, and came ont 
agS-in a quarter of an hour after. A gendarme was sitting 
on the stone bench near the door. The man doffed his cap 
and bowed humbly to the gendarme ; the latter, without re- 
ftirning his salute, looked at him attentively, and then en- 
tered the office. 

There was at that time at D a capital inn, with the 

sign of the Cross of Colbas. This inn was kept by a certain 
Jacquin Labarre, a man highly respected in the town for his 
relationship to another Labarre, who kept the Three Dol- 
phins at Labarre, and had served in the Guides. 

The man proceeded to this inn, which was the best in the 
town, and entered the kitchen, the door of which opened on 
the street. All the ovens were heated, and a large fire blazed 
cheerily in the chimney. A fat marmot, flanked by white- 
legged partridges and grouse, was turning on a long spit 
before the fire ; while two large carp from Lake Lauzet and 
an Alloz trout were bubbling in the ovens. The landlord, 
on hearing the door open and a stranger enter, said, without 
raising his eyes from his stew-pans, — 

“ What do you want, sir 1 ” 

“ Supper and a bed," the man replied. 

“ Nothing easier," said mine host. At this moment he 
looked up, took in the stranger's appearance at a glance, and 
ajjded, "" For payment." 

The man drew a heavy leathern purse from the pocket 
of his blouse, and replied, — 

“ I ha'^B money." 

“ In that case I am at your service," said the host. 

The man returned tlfb purse to his pocket, took off his 
knapsack, placed it on the ground near the door, kept his 
stick in his band, and sat down on a low stool near the fire. 

D is in tl^ mountains, and the evenings there are cold 

in October. While going backwards and forwards the land- 
lord still inspected his guest. 

‘‘ Will supper be ready soon 1 " the man asked. 

‘ Directly." 

While the new comer had his back turned to warm him- 
self, the worthy landlord took a pencil from his pocket, and 
4hen tore off the comer of an old newspaper which lay on a 
small table near the window. On the white margin he wrote 



18 


LES MISERABLES 


a line or two, folded up the Q^iper, and handrf it to a lad 
who seemed to serve both as turnspit and pa^.. The la&amp;d- 
lord whispered a word in the boy's ear, and he ran oil in the 
direction of the Mayor's house. The traveller had seen no- 
thing of all this, and he asked again whether supper would 
be ready soon. The boy came back with the paper in his 
hand, and the landlord eagerly unfolded it, like a man Vho 
is expecting an answer. He read it carefully, then shook 
his head, and remained thoughtful for a moment. At last 
he walked up to the traveller, who seemed plunged in any- 
thing but a pleasant reverie. 

“ I cannot make room for you, sir,” he said. 

The man half turned on his stool. 

“ What do you mean ? Are you afraid I shall bilk you ? 
do you want me to pay you in advance ? I have money, I 
tell you." 

" But I have not a spare bed-room." 

The man continued quietly : " Put me in the stables." 

" I cannot. The horses take up all the room." 

“ Well," the man continued, “ a corner in the loft and a 
truss of straw : we will see to that after supper." 

“ I cannot give you any supper." « 

" Nonsense, I am dying of hunger. I have been on my 
legs since sunrise, and have walked twelve leagues. I can 
pay, and demand food." 

“ I have none," said the landlord. 

The man burst into a laugh, and turned to the chimney 
and the oven. 

" Nothing ! why what is aU this T 

“ All this is ordered." 

" By whom ? " 

" By the carriers.” 

" How many are there of them 1 ” 

" Twelve." 


food here for twenty." 

The man sat down again, and said without raising his 

^ and so shall remain." 

then stooped down, and whispered with an 
CTOnt which made him start, “ Be off with you." • 

The stranger at this moment was thrusting some logs into 



LES MISERABLES 


19 


the fire \i^ith ^he ferule of stick, but he turned quickly, 
and as he was opening his mouth to reply, the landlord con- 
tinued in the same low voice : ** Come, enough of this. Do 
you wish me to tell you your name ? It is Jean Valjean. 
Nbw, do you wish me to tell you who you are ? On seeing 
you come in I suspected something, so I sent to the police 
office, and tins is the answer I received. Can you read ? ” 

While saying this, he handed the stranger the paper which 
had travelled from the inn to the office and bjick again. The 
man took a glance at it, and mine host continued after a mo- 
ment’s silence, — 

“ I am accustomed to be polite with everybody, so pray 
be off.’^ 

The man stooped, picked up his knapsack, and went off. 
He walked along the high street hap-hazard, keeping close 
to the houses like a sad and humiliated man. He did not 
look back once ; had he done so he would have seen the land- 
lord of the Cross of Colhas in his doorway, surrounded by all 
his guests and the passers-by, talking eagerly and pointing 
to him : and judging from the looks of suspicion and terror, 
he might have guessed that ere long his arrival would be the 
event of the •wffiole town. He saw nothing of all this, for 
men who are oppressed do not look back, as they know only 
too well that an evil destiny is following them. 

^He v^alkcd on thus for a long time, turning dowm streets 
he did not know, and forgetting his fatigue, as happens in 
sorrow. All at once he was sharply assailed by hunger: 
night wjfff*approaching, and he looked round to see whether 
he could not discover a shelter. The best inn was closed 
against him, and he sought some very humble pot-house, some 
WTctdhed den. At this moment a lamp was lit at the end of 
the street, and a fir-branch hanging from an iron bar stood 
out on the white twilight sky. He went towards it : it was 
really a pot-house. The stranger stopped for a moment and 
looked through the window into the low tap-room, which was 
lighted up by a small lamp on the table and a large fire on the 
hearth. Some men were drinking, and the landlord was 
warming himself ; over the flames bubbled a cauldron hang- 
ing from an iron hook. This pot-house, which is also a sort 
•of inn, has two entrances, one on the street, the other open- 
ing on a small yard full of manure. The traveller did not 



20 


LES MISERABLES 


dare enter by the Btreet dop|; he slipped into the yard, 
stopped once again, and then timidly raised ihe latch find 
entered the room. 

“ Who's there ? " the landlord asked. 

“ Some one who w^ants a supper and a bed.” 

Very good. They are to be had here." 

He wont in, and all the topers turned to look at him, d;hey 
examined him for some time while he was taking off his 
knapsack. Said the landlord to him, “ Here is a fire ; supper 
is boiling in the pot : come and warm yourself, comrade." 

He sat dow'ii in the ingle and stretched out his feet, which 
were swollen with fatigue. A pleasant smell issued from 
the cauldron. All that could be distinguished of his face 
under his cap-peak assumed a vague appearance of comfort 
blended with the other wretched appearance which the habit 
of suffering produces. It was, moreover, a firm, energetic, 
and sad profile ; the face was strangely composed, for it be- 
gan by appearing humble and ended by becoming severe. His 
eyes gleamed under his brows, like a fire under a curfew. 
One of the men seated at the table was a fishmonger, who, 
before entering the pot-house, had gone to put up his horse 
in Labarre's stables. Accident willed it that on the same 
morning he had met this ill-looking stranger walking between 

Bras d’Asse and (I have forgotten the name, but I fancy 

it is Escoublon). Now, on meeting him, the man, who 
peared very fatigued, had asked the fishmonger to give hun 
a lift, wliich had only made him go the f caster. This fish- 
monger had been half an hour previously one of^he party 
surrounding Jacquin Labarre, and had told his unpleasant 
encounter in the morning to the people at the Gross of OoJbaSm 
He made an imperceptible sign to the landlord from his 
seat, and the latter went up to him, and they exchanged a 

few whispered words. The man had fallen •back into his 
reverie. 

ri^ landlord went up to the chimney, laid his hand sharply 
on ^ the man's shoulder, and said to him, — 

You must be off from here." 

“ Ye? and replied gentlj, « Ah, you know J &lt;» 

“ I was turned out of the other inn.M 
And so you will be out of this." 



LES MISERABLES 


21 


“ Where w^fuld you have w go 1 * 

Somewheife else.” 

The man took his knapsack and stick and went away. 
As he stepped out, some boys who had followed him from the 
Olro88 of Colbas, and seemed to have been waiting for him, 
threw stones at him. He turned savagely, and threatened 
them with his stick, and the boys dispersed like a flock of 
birds. He passed in front of the prison, and pulled the iron 
bell handle ; a wicket was opened. 

“ Mr. Gaoler," he said, as he humbly doffed his cap, would 
vou be kind enough to open the door and give me a night’s 
lodging ? " 

A voice answered, ** A prison is not an inn ; get yourself 
arrested, and then I will open the door." 

As ho did not know the streets he wandered about with- 
out purpose. He thus reached the prefecture and then the 
seminary on passing through the Cathedral Square he shook 
his fist at the church. There is at the corner of this Square 
a printing-office, where the proclamations of the Emperor 
and the Imperial Guard to the army, brought from Elba, and 
drawn up by Napoleon himself, were first printed. Worn 
out with fatigue, and hopeless, he sat down on the stone 
bench at the door of this printing-office. An old lady who 
was leaving the church at the moment saw the man stretched 
ox^ in the darkness. 

“ What are you doing there, my friend ? " she said. 

He answered, harshly and savagely, “ You can see, my 
good woman, that I am going to sleep." 

The good woman, who was really worthy of the name, was 
the Marchioness de R — 

** On that bench ? " she continued. 

I have had for nineteen years a wooden mattress,” the 
man said, “ anti now I have a stone one." 

" Have you been a soldier ! ” 

** Yes, my good woman." 

** Why do you not go to the inn 1 ** 

** Because I have no money." 

Alas ! " said Madame de R I have only two-pence 

in my purse." 

* " You can give them to me all the same." 

The man took the money, and Madame de R con- 



22 


LES MISERABLES 

tinned, " You cannot lodge st,an inn for so snyill a sum, still 
you shoidd make the attempt, for you cannot possibly spffend 
tlie night here. Doubtless you are cold and hungry, and 
Borneo one might take you in for charity.** 

“ I have knocked at every door.” 

Well ! ** 

“ And was turned away at all.” | 

The “ good woman ” touched the man's arm and pointed 
to a small house next to the Bishop’s Palace. 

“ You have,” she continued, ” knocked at every door. 
Have you done so there 1 ” 

“ No.” 

Then do it.” 

On this evening, the Bishop of D , after his walk in 

the town, had remained in his bed-room till a late hour. He 
was engaged on a heavy work on the” duties,” which he un- 
fortunately has left incomplete. He was still working at 
eight o’clock, writing rather uncomfortably on small squares 
of paper, with a large book open on his knees, when Madame 
Magloire came in as usual to fetch the plate from the wall- 
cupboard near the bed. A moment after, the Bishop, feeling 
that supper was ready, and that his sister might be waiting, 
closed his book, rose from the table, and walked into the 
dining-room. It was an oblong apartment, as we have said, 
with a door opening on the street, and a window looking on 
the garden. Madame Magloire had laid the tabic, and wffile 
attending to her duties, was chatting with Mademoiselle 
Baptistine. A lamp was on the table, which v??® close to 
the chimney, in which a tolerable fire was lighted. 

We can easily figure to ourselv^ the two females, who 
had both passed their sixtieth year : Madame Magloire, ’short, 
stout, and quick : Mademoiselle Baptistine, gentle, thin, and 
frail, somewhat taller than her brother, dreftsed in a puce- 
coloured silk gown, the fashionable colour in 1806, which slie 
had bought in Paris in that year and still wore. Madame 
Magloire wore a white cap, on her neck a gold jexinnelte^ the 
feminine jewelry in the house, a very white 
handkerchief emerging from a black stuff gown with wide 
and short sleeves, a calico red and puce checked apron, fast- 
ened round the waist with a green ribbon, with a stomachef 
of the same stuff fastened with two pins at the top comers, 



LES MISEBABLES 


heavy shoes yellow stocki|Lgs, like the Marseilles women. 
Mademoiselle Baptistine's gown was cut after the fashion of 
1S06, short-waisted, with epaulettes on the sleeves, flaps and 
buttons, and she concealed her grey hair by a curling front 
cJlled d Venfant. Madame Magloire had an intelligent, quick, 
and kindly air though the unevenly raised corners of her 
mouth and the upper lip, thicker than the lower, gave her a 
somewhat rough and imperious air. So long as Monseigneur 
was silent, she spoke to him boldly with a mingled respect 
and liberty, but so soon as he spoke she passively obeyed, 
like Mademoiselle, who no longer replied, but restiicted her- 
self to obeying and enduring. Even when she was young 
the latter was not pretty ; she had large blue eyes, flush with 
her head, and a long peaked nose ; but all her face, all her 
person, as w’e said at the outset, breathed ineffable kindness. 
She had always been predestined to gentleness, but faith, hope, 
and charity, those three virtues that softly warm the soul, had 
gradually elevated that gentleness to sanctity. Nature had 
only made her a lamb, and religion had made her an angel. 
Poor holy woman ! a sweejt reminiscence which has departed. 

Mademoiselle afterwards narrated so many times what 
took place at Jbhe Bishopric on this evening that several per- 
sons still living remember the slightest details. At the mo- 
ment when the Bishop entered Madame Magloire was talking 
wijh sofne vivacity ; she w’as conversing wuth Mademoiselle 
on a subject that was familiar to her, and tow'hichthe Bishop 
was accustomed — it w^as the matter of the front door latch. 
It appcai^hat while going to purchase something for supper, 
Madame Magloire had heard things spoken of in certain quar- 
ters; people were talking of an ill-looking prowler, that a 
BuspicSous vagabond had arrived, who must be somewhere 
in the town, and that it would possibly be an unpleasant 
thing for any^one out late to meet him. The police were 
very badly managed because the Prefect and the Mayor were 
not friendly, and tried to injure each other by allowing things 
to happen. Hence ^ise people . would be their own police, 
and be careful to close their houses and lock theif doors, 

Madame Magloire italicized the last sentence, but the 
Bishop had come from his room, where it was rather cold, and 
was wanning himself at the fire while thinking of other mat- 
ters; in fact, he did not pick up the words which Madame 



24 


LES MISEBABLES 


Magloire had just let drop. ^She repeated tl^m, and then 
Mademoiselle, who wished to satisfy Madame jilagloire with- 
out displeasing her brother, ventured to say timidly, — 

“ Brother, do you hear wlxat Madame Magloire is saying ? ** 
“ I vaguely heard something,” the Bishop answered ; thin 
he half turned his chair, placed his hands on his knees, and 
looked up at the old servant with his cordial and easily-pleased 
face, wliich the fire illumined from below : “ Well, what is 
it ? what is it ? arc wc in any great danger ? ” 

Then Matlame Magloire told her story over again, while 
exaggerating it slightly, though unsuspicious of the fact. It 
would seem that a gipsy, a barefooted fellow, a sort of dan- 
gerous beggar, was in the town at the moment. He had tried 
to get a lodging at Jacquin Labarre’s, who had refused to 
take him in. He had been seen prowling about the streets 
at nightfall, and was evidently a gallows bird, with his fright- 
ful face. 

” Is he really ? ” said the Bishop. 

This cross-questioning encouraged Madame Magloire; it 
seemed to indicate that the Bishop was beginning to grow 
alarmed, and hence she continued triumphantly, — 

“Yes, Monscigneur, it is so, and some ijiisfortune will 
occur in the town this night : everybody says so, and then 
the police are so badly managed (useful repetition). Fancy 
living in a mountain town, and not even having lanterns in 
the streets at nights 1 You go out and find yourself in pffioh 
darkness. I say, Monseigneur, and Mademoiselle says — ” 

“ I,” the sister interrupted, “ say nothing ; wintever my 
brother does is right,” 

. Madame Magloire continued, as«ii no protest had been 
made, — 


^ We say that this house is not at all safe, and that if Mon- 
seigneur permits I will go to Paulin Museboisi the locksmith, 
and tell him to put the old bolts on the door again ; I have 
them by me, and it will not take a minute ; and I say, Mon- 
seigneur, that we ought to have bolte if it were only for this 
night, for I say that a door which can be opened from the 
outside by the first passer-by is most terrible : besides, Mon- 

3?” to “ay Come in, and in the 

of the mght,-^h my gracious I there is no occasion 
to ask for pennissioii,’* ^ 



LES MISERABLES 


25 


At this moixient there was rather loud rap at the front 
door: 

“ Come in,” said the Bishop. 

The door was thrown open wide, as if some one were push- 
ing it energetically and resolutely. A man entered whom we 
already know; it was the traveller whom we saw just now 
wandering about in search of a shelter. He entered and 
stopped, leaving the door open behind him. He had his knap- 
sack on his shoulder, his stick in his hand, and a rough, bold, 
wearied, and violent expression in his eyes. The fire-light 
fell on him ; he was hideous ;] it was a sinister apparition. 

Madame Magloire had not even the strength to utter a 
cry, she shivered and stood with widely-open mouth. Made- 
moiselle Baptistine turned, perceived the man who entered, 
and half started up in terror; then, gradually turning her 
head to the chimney, she began looking at her brother, and 
her face became again calm and serene. The Bishop fixed a 
quiet eye on the man, as he opened his mouth, doubtless to 
ask the new-comer what he wanted. The man leant both his 
hands on his stick, looked in turn at the two aged females 
and the old man, and, not waiting for the Bishop to speak, 
said in a loud woice, — 

“My name is Jean Valjean. I am a galley-slave, and 
have spent nineteen years in the bagne. I was liberated four 
dajjs ago' and started for Pontarlier, which is my destination. 
I have been w'alking for four days since I left Toulon, and 
to-day I have marched twelve leagues. This evening on 
coming in^’the town I went to the inn, but was sent away 
in consequence of my yellow passport, which I had shown at 
the police office. I wentf to another inn, and the landlord 
said to* me, Be off. It was the same everywhere, and no one 
would have any dealings with me. I went to the prison, but 
the gaoler woul(? not take me in. I got into a dog’s kennel, 
but the dog bit me and drove me off, as if it had been a man ; 
it seemed to know who I was. I went into the fields to sleep 
in the star-light, but there were no stars. I thought it would 
rain, and as there was no God to prevent it from raining, I 
came back to the town to sleep in a doorway. I was lying 
down on a stone in the square, when a good woman pointed 
t6 your house, and said, Go and knock there. What sort of 
a house is this t do you keep an inn I I have money, 109 



26 


LES MISERABLES 


francs 16 sons, which I earncyl at the bagne by my nineteen 
years’ toil. I will pay, for what do I rare for that, as I tave 
money ! I am very tired and friglitfully hungry ; will you 
let me stay here ? ” 

“ Madame Magloire,” said the Bishop, “ you will lay fin- 
other knife and fork.” 

The man advanced three pares, and approached the’lamp 
which was on the table. “ Wait a inijmte,” he continued, as 
if he had not comprehended, ” that will not do. Did you not 
hear me say tliat I was a galley-slave, a convdet, and have 
just come from the bagne ? ” He took from his pocket a 
large yellow paper, which he unfolded. “ H(TC is my passport, 
yellow as you see, which turns me out whenever I go. Will 
you read it ? I can read it, for I learned to do so at the 
bagne, where there is a school for those who like to attend 
it. This is what is written in my passport : ‘ Jean Valjean, a 
liberated convict, native of ’ — but that does not concern you 
— ‘has remained nineteen years at the galleys. Five years 
for robbery with house-breaking, fourteen years for havii g 
tried to escape four times. The man is very dangerous.’ All 
the world has turned me out, and are you willing to receive 
me ? is this an inn ? will you give me some food and a bed ? 
have you a stable 1 ” 

“ Madame Mngloire,” said the Bishop, “ you will put clean 
sheets on the bed in the alcove.” ^ 

We have already explain^^d of what nature was the obedience 
of the two females. Madame Magloire left the room to 
carry out the orders. The Bishop turned to*tlio man. 

“ Sit down and warm yourself, sir. We shall sup directly, 
and your bed will be got ready w^ile we are supping,” 

The man understood this at once. The expression of his 
face, which had hitherto been gloomy and harsh, was marked 
with stupefaction, joy, doubt, and became eiftraordinary. Ho 
began stammering like a lunatic. 

Is it tine ? w’hat ? You will let me stay, you will not 
turn me out, a convict ? You call me Sir, you do not ‘ thou * 
that is what is always said to me; I 
really believed that you would turn me out, and hence told 
you at once who I am ! Oh, what a worthy woman she was 
^ho sent me here ! I shall have supper, a bed with msft- 
tresses and sheets, like everybody else. For nineteen years 



LES MISERABLES 


27 


I have not slept in a bed ! You really mean that I am to 
stay.* You are worthy people ; ^ besides, I have money, and 
will pay handsomely. By the way, what is your name, Mr. 
Landlord ? I will pay anything you please, for you are a 
worthy man. You keep an inn, do you not ? ” 

“ I am,” said the Bishop, “ a priest living in this house.” 

“ A • priest ! ” the man continued. “ Oh ! what a worthy 
priest ! I s\jppose you will not ask me for money. The Cut6, 
I suppose, the Cure of that big church ? Oh yes, what an ass 
I am, I did not notice your cassock.” 

"While spefiking he deposited his knapsack and stick in a 
corner, returned his passport to his pocket, and sat down. 
Wliile Mademoiscllo Baptistine regarded him gently, he went 
on,— 

“ You are humane, sir, and do not feel contempt. A good 
priest is very good. Then you do not want me to pay ? ” 

“ No,” said the Bishop, ” keep your money. Ho\r long 
did you take in earning these 109 foanca ? ” 

” Nineteen years.” 

” Nineteen years ! ” The Bishop gave a deep sigh. 

The man went on, — “ I have all my money still ; in four 
days I have only spent 25 sous, which I earned by helping to 
unload carts at Grasse. As you are an abbe I will tell you : 
we had a chaplain at the bagne, and one day I saw a bishop, 
Monseigneur, as they call him. He is the cure over the cures. 
He said mass in the middle of the bagne at an altar, and had 
a pointed gold thing on his head, vrhich glistened in the bright 
sunshine ; tte were drawn up on three sides of a square, with 
guns and lighted matches facing us. He spoke, but was too 
far oS, and we did not hear him. ' That is what a bishop 
is.” 

While he was speaking the Bishop had gone to close the 
door, which had i[)een left open. Madame Magloire came in, 
bringing a silver spoon and fork, which she placed on the 
tal)le. 

“ Madame Magloire,” said the Bishop, ” lay them as near 
as you can to the fire ; ” and turning to his guest, he said, 
*‘The night breeze is sharp on the Alps, and you must be 
cold, sir.” 

£ach time he said the word Sir with his gentle grave voice 
the man’s face was illumined. Sir to a convict is the glass of 



28 LES MISEBABLES 

water to the shipwrecked Bailor of the Mednse. Igndminy 
thirsts for respect. ^ 

“ This lamp gives a very bad light,” the Bishop continued* 
Madame Magloire understood, and fetched from the chimney 
of Monseigneur’s bed-room the two silver candlesticks, which 
she placed on the table ready lighted. 

“ Monsieur Ic Cur6,” said the man, ‘‘ you are good, and do 
not despise me. You receive me as a friend and light your 
wax candles for me, and yet I have not hidden from you whence 
I come, and that I am an unfortunate fellow.” 

The Bishop, who w'as seated by his side, gently touched 
his hand. “ You need not have told me who you were ; this 
is not my house, but the house of Christ. This door does 
not ask a man who enters whether he has a name, but if he 
has a sorrow ; you are suffering, you are hungry and thirsty, 
and so be welcome. And do not thank me, or say that I am 
receiving you in my house, for no one is at home here excepting 
the man who has need of an asylum. I tell you, w^ho are 
a passer-by, that you arc more at home here than I am my- 
self, and all there is here is yours. Why do I want to know 
your name ? besides, before you told it to me you had one 
which I knew.” 

The man opened his eyes in amazement. 

^ Is that true ? you know my name ? ” 

** Yes,” the Bishop answered, “ you are my ‘brotjOT.” 

“Monsieur le Cure,” the man exclaimed, “I was very 
hungry w^hen I came in, but you are so kind that I do not 
know at present what I feel ; it has passed ''t)ver.” 

The Bishop looked at him and said, — 

“ You have suffered greatly ? ” ♦ 

“ Oh I the red jacket, the cannon ball on your foot, a plank 
to sleep on, heat, cold, labour, the set of men, the blows, 
the double chain for a nothing, a dungeon ^or a word, even 
when you are ill in bed, and the chain-gang. The very 
dogs are happier. Nineteen years ! and now I am forty-six { 
and at present, the yellow passport I ” 

Yes, said the Bishop, “ you have come from a place of 
sorrow. Listen to me ; there will be more joy in heaven over 
the tearful face of a repentant sinner than over the white 
robes of one hundred just men. If you leave that mournful 
place with thoughts of hatred and anger against your fel low- 



LES MISEBABLES 


29 


men you are wbrthy of pity ; i&amp;you leave it with thoughts of 
kindliness, gentleness, and peace, you are worth more than 
any of us.” 

In the meanwhile JMadame Magloire had served the soup : 
it ^as made of water, oil, bread, and salt, and a little bacon, 
and the rest of the supper consisted of a piece of mutton, figs, 
a fresh cheese, and a loaf of rye bread. She had herself added 
a bottle of old Mauves wine. The Bishop^s face suddenly 
assumed the expression of gaiety peculiar to hospitable natures. 
“ To table,” he said eagerly, as he was wont to do when any 
stranger supped with him ; and he bade the man sit down on 
his right hand, while Mile. Baptistine, perfectly peaceful and 
natural, took her seat on his left. The Bishop said grace, and 
then served the soup himself, according to his wont. The 
man began eating greedily. All at once the Bishop said, — 
‘"It strikes me that there is something wanting on the 
table.” 

Madame Magloire, truth to tell, had only laid the abso- 
lutely necessary silver. Now it was the custom in this house, 
when the Bishop had any one to supper, to arrange the whole 
stock of plate on the table, as an innocent display. This 
graceful semblance of luxury was a species of childishness 
full of charm in this gentle and strict house, which elevated 
poverty to dignity. Madame Magloire took the hint, w'ent 
out j^ithout a word, and a moment after the remaining spoons 
and forks glittered on the cloth, S3mimetrically arranged be- 
fore each of the guests, 

CHjLPTER II 

And now, in order to give an idea of what took place at table^ 
we cannot do better than transcribe a passage of a letter 
written by Mademoiselle Baptistine to Madame Boischevron, 
in which the conversation between the convict and the Bishop 
it recorded with simple minuteness, 

e e e « • 

“The man paid no attention to any one; he ate with 
frightful voracity, but after supper he said, — 

* * Monsieur le Cur4, all this is much too good for me, but 
I im bound to say that the carriers who would not let me 
•up with them have better cheer than you.’ 



3^,; LES miserables 


_ , ‘‘•%itween barseIv«a,.tM3 Remark sligh% ofiended me, but 
br&lt;4'K€ir answferc&lt;],_ — • 

“ * Tliey ave harder than I am&lt;* 

' * No,’ tluj man con ’ they have more money. Yon 

ar(3 po&lt;jr, as I can plaiiily sefe ;■ p^haps you are not oven cm 6. 
Ah, i{ Fieaven were just you to be a ciue.’ 

“ ‘ Heaven is more than jusl,' said my brother, \ morcerit 
after ho added, — 

“ * Monsionr Jean Valjean, I think you said you were going 
to P(»ntarlier ? ’ 

“ ‘ I am compelled to go there.* Then he continued, ‘ I 
must be of by sunrir^e to-morrow morning ; it is a tovigh 
journey, for if the nights are cold the days are hot.* 

“ Towards the end, when we had como to the figs, there was 
n knock at the door: It was Mot Iter Gerbaiid \sdth her little 


baby in her arms. My brother kissed the child’s forclicad, and 
borrowed from me 15 sous which I happened to iiave about 
me^ give them to the toother. The man, while this was 
gomg'Oji, did not seem to pay great attention : he said nothing, 
and seemed very tired. When poor old Muther Gcrbaiid left, 
my brotljer said grace, and then said to this man : ‘ You must 
reed voiir bod.’ Madame Magloire hastily removed the plate. 
T ufjdcrstood that vve luua^t retire in order to let this travtdler 
and we both went upstai^. I, however, sent Madame 


Magloire to lay on the man’s bed a roebuck’s lude' froy^ the 
i^lack Forest, which was in my room, for the nights are very 
C(»1&lt;1, and that keeps you warm. It is a pity that this skin is^ 
old and the hair is wearing off. My brother bought it when ho 
'was in |i^.rmany, at Tottlingen, near tlie sOurce of the D^-nube, 
as welite the small ivory-hatid^i knife which I use at meals. 

“ Magloire came up again.^ abnost inimfidiatoly. 


a miall ivory-hatidl^l irmte wh^ich J use at meajs. 

lagloire came up again ^abnost inimfidiatoly. 
payers in thi^|om ^vlle^e the clofiies are^hung&lt; 
i^ien rdfreeWb oirr bed-roo'iCns mthout sayii^ 

g his^ister gbod-night Monscigneur WelconM 
f the silver candlesticks, handed the other 

you to your room, sir.” 

[lowed him. The reader will remember, froto 
, that the rooms were so arranged that in order 
atory '^here the alcove it was necessar)’^ to 



LES MISERAELES 


31 


passlihrough the Bishop’s bedroom. At the moment when ho 
werit*through this room Madamo Magloire was puttiiig away 
the plate in the cupboard over the bed-head : it was the last 
job she did . every night before retiring. The Bishop led liis 
guest to the alcove, w^here a clean bed was prepared for him; 
the man placed the branched candlestick ou a small table. 

“I you will pass a good night,” said tlio Bishop. 

“ To-morrow morning, beiore starting, you will drink a glass 
of milk fresh from our cows.” 

“ Thank yo«i, Monsieur TAbbe,” the man said. He had 
hardly uttered these peaceful words when, suddenly and vrith- 
out ariy transition, he had a trange emotion, wiiich would 
have frightened the two old females to death had they wit- 
nessed it. Even at the present day it is dilTicult to account 
for )vhat urged him at the moment. Did lie, wish to warn or 
to threaten ? was lie simply obeying a species of instiiU'tive 
ittipulsc which was obstturc to himself? Ho suddenly turned 
to the old gentlema.n, folded his arms, and, fixing on him a 
savage glance, he exclaimed hoarsely, — 

\yimt ! you really lodge me so close to you as that ? ” 
He broke ofi and addtxi with a laugh, in which there was 
Something roonsjrous, — 

** Have you reflet-tcd fully, who tolls you that I have not 
committed a murd(T ? ” 

The Bishop a'nswered : “ 'Jhat concerns God. ' 

Tlffn gravely moving his lips, like a man who is praying 
and. spi^king to himself, he stretched out two lingers of his 
right hand and blessed the man, who did not bow his head, 
and returned to his bed-room, without turning his head or 
looking behind him. Wheik the alcove w’^as occupied, a large 
serge curtain drawn right across the oratory concealed the 
&lt;^41tar. The Bishop Icnelt down as he passed before this cut- 
""taiii, and offered a short prayer ; a moment after he was 
in, lib garden, walking, dreaming, contemplating, his soul and 
t^uglita entirely occupied by those grand nrystcries which 
displays at night to eyes that remain open. 

As for the man, he w^as really so ’'worried that he did not' 
"■eyen take advantage of the nice white sheets. He blew put 
* the candle with his nostrils, after the fashion of cohvicta, and 
-ttegw himself in his clothes upon the bed, where he at once 
'fell into a deep sleep. Midnight was striking as tfee Bishop 



LES MISEBABLES 


32 

return^ fiom the garden to ]p room, and a few zninote 8 ''later 
everybody was asleep in the small house. o 

Toward the middle of the night Jean Yaljean awoke. He 
belonged to a poor peasant family of la Brie. In his childhood 
he had not been taught to read, and when he was of man’s 
age he was a wood-loppei at Faverolles. His mother’s name 
was Jeanne Mathieu, his father’s Jean Yaljean or Vlajean, 
probably a sobriquet and a contraction of Voild Jean. Jean 
Yaljean possessed a pensive but not melancholy character, 
which is peculiar to afEectionate natures ; but altogether he 
was a dull, insignificant fellow, at least apparently. He had 
lost father and mother when st^ very young : the latter died 
of a badly-managed milk fever; the former, a pruner, like 
himself, was kill^ by a fall from a tree. All that was left 
Jean Yaljean was a sister older than himself, a widow with 
seven ohjildren, boys and girls. This sister brought Jean 
Yaljean up, and so long as her husband was alive she sup- 
ported her brother. Y^en the husband died, the oldest of 
the seven children was eight years of age, the youngest, one, 
while Jean Yaljean had just reached his twenty-fifth year; 
he took the place of the hther, and in his turn supported the 
sister who had reared him« This was done sjpiply as a duty, 
and even rather roughly by Jean Yaljean ; and his youth was 
thus expended in hard and ill-paid toil. He was never known 
to have had a sweetheart^ for he had no time for love-making. 

At night he came home tired, and ate his soup without 
saying a word. His sister, Mother Jeanne, while he was eat- 
ing, often took out of his porringer the best part of his meal, 
the piece of meat, the slice of bacon, or the heart of the 
bage, to give it to one of her children ; he, still eating, bent 
over the table with his head almost in the soup, and«lm long 
hair falling round his porringer and hiding his eyes, pretended, 
not to see it, and let her do as she pleasgd. There was atkf 
EaveroUes, not far from the Yaljeans’ cottage, on the otheit/ 
side of the lane, a farmer’s wife called Marie Gaude. 
young Yaljeans, who were habitually starving, would gd!^ 
tim^ and borrow in their mother’s name a pint of milk from 
Marie Claude, which they drank behind a hedge or in some^ 
&lt;»mer, tearing the vessel from each other so eagerly that the 
little girls spilt the milk over their aprons. Their mot}|ier» 
Itfui she been aware of this fraud, would have sey^dy 0or^&lt;. 



LES MISERABLES 


33 


but Jddn Valjean, coarse and rough 
4iPsigh he was, paid Marie Claude for the milk behind hie 
sister’s back, and the children were not punished. 

He earned in the pruning season eighteen sous a day, and 
besides hired himself out as reaper, labourer, neatherd, and 
odd man. He did what he could ; his sister worked too, but 
what could she do with seven children ? It was a sad group, 
which wretchedness gradually enveloped and choked. One 
winter was hard, and Jean had no work to do, and the family 
had no bread. No bread, literally none, and seven children. 

One Sunday evening, Maubert Isabeau, the baker in the 
church square at Faverolles, was just going to bed when he 
heard a violent blow dealt the grating in &amp;ont of his shop. 
He arrived in time to see an arm passed through a hole made 
by a fist through the grating and window pane; the arm 
seized a loaf, and carri^ it oS. Isabeau ran out hastily; 
the thief ran away at his hardest, but the baker caught him 
up and stopped him. The thief had thrown away the loaf ; 
but his arm was still bleeding ; it was Jean Valjean. 

This took place in 1795. Jean Valjean was brought before 
the courts of the day, charged ** with Wglary committed with 
violence at night, in an inhabited house.” He had a gun, was 
a splendid shot, and a bit of a poacher, and this injured him. 
There is a legitimate prejudice against poachers. Jean Val- 
wal found guilty, and the terms of the code were formal. 
He was sentenced to five years at the galleys. 

On April 22nd, 1796, men were cryinu m the streets of 
Paris the victory of Montenotte, gamed by the Oeneral-in- 
chief of the army of Italy, whom the^essage of the Directory 
to the Five Hundred of i Flor&amp;d, ah IV., calls Buona-Parte ; 
and ^ the same day^ [a heavy gang was put in chains at 
Bicetre, and Jean Valjean formed part of the chain. An ez- 
gaoler of the ptfaon, who is now nearly ninety years of age, 
. perfectly remembers the wretched man, who was chained at 
the end of the fourth cordon, in the north angle of the court- 
yard. He was seated on the ground like the test, and seemed 
not at aU to understand his position, except that it was hor- 
rible. It is probable that he also saw something excessive 
jthrough the v^e ideas of an utterly ignorant man. While 
Ij^b olt of his iron collar was being riveted with heavy ham- 
»» blows briiind hia head, he wept, tears choked him, and 



34 


LES MISEBABLES 


prevented him from speaking, •and he could orfy manage to 
say from time to time : “ I was a wood-cutter at Faverollfe.’* 
Then, while still continuing to sob, he raised his right hand, 
and lowered it gradually seven times, as if touching seven un- 
even heads in turn, and from this gesture it could be guessed 
that whatever the crime he had committed, he had done it to 
feed a^d clothe seven children. 

He started for Toulon, and arrived there after a journey 
of twenty-seven days in a cart, with the chain on his neck. 
At Toulon ho was dressed in the red jacket. All that had 
hitherto been his life, even to his name, was effaced. He was 
no longer Jean Valjean, but No. 24,601. 

Toward the end of the fourth year, Jean Valjean escaped 
and wandered about the fields at liberty for two days : if it 
is liberty to be hunted do^vn ; to .turn one’s head at every 
moment ; to start at the slightest sound. On the evening of 
the second day he was recaptured ; he had not eaten or slept 
for six-and-thirty hours. The maritime tribunal added three 
years to his sentence for his crime, which made it eight years. 
Tn the sixth year, he again tried to escape, but could not succeed. 
He was missing at roll call, the gun was fired, and at night the 
watchman found him hidden under the keel of a ship that was 
building, and he resisted the garde chiourme who seized him. 
Escape and rebellion : this fact, foreseen by the special code, 
was punished by an addition of five years, of which two w^ld 
be spent in double chains. Thirteen years. In his tenth year 
his turn came again, and he took advantage of it, but suc- 
eeeded no better ; three years for this new attempt, or six- 
teen years in all. Finally, I think it was during his thir- 
teenth year that he made a last attempt, and only succeeded 
so far as to be recaptured in four hours : three years fof these 
four hours, and a total of nineteen years. In October, 1816, 
he was liberated ; he had gone m in 1796 foiebreaking a win- 
dow and stealing a loaf. 

Jean Valjean entered the bagne sobbing and shuddering • 
he left it stoicaUy. He entered it in despair : he came out 
of it gloomy. 

One ^ct we must not omit mentioning is that he possessed 
a physical strength with which no one in the bagne could 
compete. In turning a capstan, Jean Valjean was equal t0 
four men ; he frequently raised and held on his back enormous 



LES MISEBABLES 


35 


weights, and V)ok the place at^imes of that instrument which 
is called a jack, and was formerly called orgueil, from which, 
by the way, the Rue Montorgueil derived its name. His 
comrades sumamed him Jean the Jack. Once when the bal- 
cony of the Town Hall at Toulon was being repaired, one of 
those admirable caryatides of Puget’s which support the bal- 
cony became loose and almost fell. Jean Valjean, who was 
on the spot, supported the statue with his shoulder, and thus 
gave the workmen time to come up. 

His suppleness even exceeded his vigour. Some convicts, 
who perpetually dream of escaping, eventually make a real 
science of combined skill and strength; it is the science of 
the muscles. A full course of mysterious statics is daily 
practised by the prisoners, those eternal enviers of flies and 
birds. Swarming up a perpendicular, and finding a resting- 
place where a projection is scarcely visible, was child’s play 
for Jean Valjean. Given a comer of a wall, with the tension 
of his back and hams, with his elbows and heels clinging to 
the rough stone, he would hoist himself as if by magic to a 
third storey, and at times would ascend to the very roof of the 
bagne. He spoke little, and never laughed ; it needed some 
extreme emotihn to draw from him, once or twice a year, that 
mournful convict laugh which is, as it were, the echo of fiend- 
ish laughter. To look at him, he seemed engaged in continu- 
aJkf gazing at something terrible. He was, in fact, absorbed. 
Tliough the sickly perceptions of an incomplete nature and 
a crushed intellect, he saw confusedly that a monstrous thing 
w^as hanging over him. In this obscure and dull gloom through 
which he crawled, wherever he turned his head and essayed 
to raijse his eye, he saw, with a terror blended with rage, built 
up above him, with frightfully scarped sides, a species of 
terrific pile of things, laws, prejudices, men and facts, whose 
outline escaped^im, whose mass terrified him. and which was 
nothing else but that prodigious pyramid which we call civil- 
ization. 

In this situation, Jean Valjean thought, and what could 
be the nature of his reverie ? If the grain of com had its 
thoughts, when ground by the mill-stone, it would doubtless 
think as did Jean Valjean. All these things, realities full of 
spectres, phantasmagorias full of reality, ended by creating for 
him a sort of internal condition which is almost inexpressible* 



36 LES MISERABLES 

The starting-point, like the foal, of all his thoughts, was 
hatred of human law : that hatred which, if it be not arrested 
in its development by some providential incident, becomes 
within a given time a hatred of society, then a hatred of the 
human race, next a hatred of creation, and which is expressed 
by a vague, incessant, and brutal desire to injure some one^ 
no matter whom. As we see, it was not unfairly that the 
passport described Jean Valjean 8ts a highly dangerous mam 
Year by year this soul had become more and more withered, 
slowly but fatally. A dry soul must have a dry eye, and on 
leaving the bagne, nineteen years had elapsed since he had shed 
a tear. 

When the hour for quitting the bagne arrived, when Jean 
Valjean heard in his ear the unfamiliar words “ you are free,” 
the moment seemed improbable and extraordinary, and a ray 
of bright light, of the light of the living, penetrated to him ; 
but it soon grew pale. Jean Valjean had been dazzled by 
the idea of liberty, and had believed in a new life, but he 
soon saw that it is a liberty to which a yellow passport is 
granted. And around this there was much bitterness ; he 
had calculated that his earnings, during his stay at the bagne, 
should have amounted to 171 francs. We are1&gt;ound to add 
that he had omitted to take into his calculations the forced 
rest of Sundays and holidays, which, during ninetceiji years, 
entailed a diminution of about 24 francs. However this 
might be, the sum was reduced, through various local stop- 
pages, to 109 francs, 15 sous, which were paid to him when 
he left the bagne. He did not understand it all, and fancied 
that he had been robbed. 

On the day after his liberation, he saw at Grasse, in .front 
of a distillery of orange-flower water, men unloading balea ; 
he offered his services, and as the work wbs of a pressing 
nature, they were accepted. He set to work; he was intelli- 
gent, powerful, and skilful, and his master appeared satisfied* 
While ho was at work a gendarme passed, noticed him, asked 
for his paper, and he was compeU^ to show his yellow pass* 
This done, Jean Valjean r^umed his toil. A little while 
previously he had asked one of the workmen what he 
earned for his day’s work, and the answer was 30 sous. At 
night, as he was compelled to start again the next momingf 
he went to the master of the distillery and asked for pay* 



LES MISBBABLES 


S7 


m^t ; the master did not saf a word, but gave him 16 sous, 
and when he protested, the^ answer was, “That is enough for 
you.” He became pressing, the master looked hijqp in the 
face and said, “Mind you don’t get into prison.” 

Here again he regarded himself as robbed; society, the 
state, by diminishing his earnings, had robbed him wholesale ; 
now it was the turn of the individual to commit retail rob- 
bery. Liberation is not deliverance, a man may leave the 
bagne, but not condemnation. We have seen what happened 
to him at Grasse, and we know how he was treated at D — * — 
As two o’clock pealed from the cathedral bell, Jean Val- 
jean awoke. What aroused him was that the bed was too 
comfortable, for close on twenty years he had not slept in a 
bed, and though he had not undressed, the sensation was too 
novel not to disturb his sleep. He had been asleep for more 
than four hours, and his weariness had worn ofi ; and he was 
accustomed not to grant many hours to repose. He opened 
his eyes and looked into the surrounding darkness, and then 
he closed them again to go to sleep once more. When many 
diverse sensations have agitated a day, and when matters 
preoccupy the mind, a man may sleep, but he cannot go to sleep 
again. Sleep *comes more easily than it returns, and this hap- 

E ened to Jean Valjean. As he could not go to sleep again, 
e beg^n thinking. 

4flany thoughts occurred to him, but there was one which 
constantly reverted and expelled aU the rest. This thought 
we will at once describe ; he had noticed the six silver forks 
and spoons and the great ladle which Madame Magloire put 
on the table. This plate overwhelmed him — it was there — a 
few yards from him. When he crossed the adjoining room 
to reach the one in which he now was, the old servant was 
putting it into a small cupboard at the bed-head, — ^he had care- 
fully noticed tnis cupboard — ^it was on thA right as you came 
in from the dining-room. The plate was heavy and old, the 
big soup-ladle was worth at least 200 francs, or double what 
he had earned in nineteen years, though it was tnie that he 
would have earned more had not the officials robbed him. 

His mind oscillated for a good hour in these fluctuations, 
with which a strumle was most assuredly blended. When 
\hree o’clock strumc he opened his eyes, suddenly sat up, 
stretched out his arms, and felt for hk knapsack, which he 



38 


LES MISERABLES 


had thrown into a comer of thi alcove, then let his legs h«,ng 
and felt himself seated on the bed-side almost without know- 
ing how. He remained for awhile thoughtfully in this atti- 
tude, which would have had something sinister about it for 
any one who had seen him, the only wakeful person in the 
house. All at once he stooped, took oH his shoes, then re- 
sumed his thouglitful posture, and remained motionless. In 
the midst of this hideous meditation, the ideas which we have 
indicated incessantly crossed his brain, entered, went out, re- 
turned, and weighed upon him ; and then he thought, without 
knowing why, and with the mechanical obstinacy of reverie, 
of a convict he had known at the bagne, of the name of Brevet, 
whose trousers were only held up by a single knitted brace. 
The draught-board design of that brace incessantly returned 
to his mind. He remained in this situation, and would 
probably have remained so till sunrise, had not the clock 
struck the quarter or the half-hour. It seemed as if this 
stroke said to him, To work ! He rose, hesitated for a moment 
and listened ; all was silent in the house, and he went on 
tip-toe to the window, through which he peered. The 
night was not very dark ; there was a full moon^ across which 
heavy clouds were chased by the wind. This produced alter- 
nations of light and shade, and a species of twilight in the 
room ; this twilight, sufficient to guide him, but intermittent 
in consequence of the clouds, resembled that livid hue ]^o- 
duced by the grating of a cellar over which people are con- 
tinually passing. On reaching the window, Jean Valjean ex- 
amined it; it was without bars, looked on the garden, and 
was only closed, according to the fashion of the country, by 
a small peg. He opened it, but as a cold sharp breezo sud- 
denly entered the room, he closed it again directly. He 
gazed into the garden with that attentive glaiuje which studies 
rather than lool^, and found that it was enclosed by a white- 
washed wall easy to climb over. Beyond it he noticed the 
tops of trees standing at regular distances, which proved that 
this wall separated the garden from a public walk. 

After talang this glance, he walked boldly to the alcove, 
opened his knapsack, took out something which he laid on 
the bed, put his shoes in one of the pouches, placed the knap- 
sack on his shoulders, put on his cap, the peak of which to 
pulled over his eyes, groped for his stick, which he placed in 



LES MISERABLES 


S9 


th^ window nook, and then i^umed to the bed, and took up 
the object he had laid on it. It resembled a short iron bar, 
sharpened at one of its ends. It would have been difficult 
to distinguish in the darkness for what purpose this piece of 
iron had been fashioned ; perhaps it was a lever, perhaps it was 
a club. By daylight it could have been seen that it was no- 
thing but a miner’s candlestick. The convicts at that day 
were sometimes employed in extracting rock from the lofty 
hills that surround Toulon, and it was not infrequent for them 
to have mining tools at their disposal. The miners’ candle- 
sticks are made of massive steel, and have a point at the lower 
end, by which they are dug into the rock. He took the bar 
in his right hand, and holding his breath and deadening his 
footsteps he walked towards the door of the adjoining room, 
the Bishop’s as we know. On reaching this door he found it 
ajar — the Bishop had not shut it. 

Jean Valjean listened, but there was not a sound; he 
pushed the door with the tip of his finger lightly, and with 
the furtive restless gentleness of a cat that wants to get in. 
The door yielded to the pressure, and made an almost imper- 
ceptible and silent movement, which slightly widened the 
opening. He 'waited for a moment, and then pushed the 
door again more boldly. It continued to yield silently, and 
the opening was soon large enough for him to pass through. 
Blit there was near the door a small table which formed an 
awkward angle with it, and barred the entrance. 

Jean Valjean noticed the difficulty : the opening must be 
increased at all hazards. He made up his mind, and pushed 
the door a third time, more energetically still. This time 
there, was a badly-oile3 hinge, which suddenly uttered a 
hoarse prolonged cry in the darfaiess. Jean Valjean started; 
the sound of t^e hinge smote his ear startlingly and formid- 
ably, as if it had been the trumpet of the day of judgment. 
In the fanastic exaggeration of the first minute, he almost 
imagined that this hinge had become animated, and suddenly 
obtained a terrible vitality and barked like a dog to warn and 
awaken the sleepers. He stopped, shuddering and dismayed, 
and fell back from tip-toes on his heels. He felt the arteries 
in his temples beat like two forge hammers, and it seemed to 
Um that his breath issued from his lungs with the noise of 
the wind roaring out of a cavern. 



40 


LES MISERABLES 


A few minutes passed, durfng which the door remauied 
wide open. He ventured to look into the room, and found 
that nothing had stirred, the creaking of the rusty hinge had 
not awakened any one. The first danger had passed, but still 
there was fearful tumult within him. But ho did not recoil, 
he had not done so even when he thought himself lost; he 
only thought of finisliing the job as speedily as possible, and 
entered the bed-room. The room was in a state of perfect 
calmness; here and there might be distinguished confused 
and vague forms, which by day were papers scattered over 
the table, open folios, books piled on a sofa, an easy-chair 
covered with clothes, and a priedieu, all of which were at tliis 
moment only dark nooks and patches of white. Jean Valjean 
advanced cautiously and carefully, and avoided coming into 
collision with the furniture. He heard from the end of the 


room the calm and regular breathing of the sleeping Bishop. 
Suddenly he stopped, for he was close to the bed ; he had 
reached it sooner than he anticipated. 

Nature at times blends her effects and spectacles with our 
actions with a species of gloomy and intelligent design, as if 
wishins to make us reflect. For nearly half an hour a heavy 
cloud had covered the sky, but at the moment when Jean 
Valjean stopped at the foot of the bed, this cloud was rent 
asunder as if expressly, and a moonbeam passing through the 
tall window suddenly illumined the Bishop’s pale face. ^le 
was sleeping peacefully, and was wrapped up m a long gar- 
ment of brown wool, which covered his arms down to the 
wnsts. as head was thrown back on the pillow in the easy 
attitude of repose, and his hand, atjorned with the pastoral 
rmg, and which had done so many good deeds, hung out of 
bed. His entire face was lit up by a vague exnre^ion nf 
satisfaction, hope and beatitude— it was moj^ than a smile 
and dmost a radiance. He had on his forehead the S 

“ inTOible light, for the bouI of a just 
MU wntemplatea a mysterious heaven during sleep. A^ij! 
flwfaon of this heaven was cast over the Bishop, but it was 
at the Mme time a luminous transparency, for the heaven 
was within him, and was conscience. 

^ nnconsciously augurt 
bar in hi8 hand, motionless and terrified by this tnou* 



LES MISBBABLES 41 

old man. He had never seen* anything like this before, and 
Bucli confidence horrified him. The moral world has no 
greater spectacle than this, a troubled restless conscience, 
which is on the point of committing a bad action, contem- 
plating the sleep of a just man. 

The Bishop continued to sleep peacefully beneath this 
terrific glance. A moonbeam rendered the crucifix over the 
mantle-piece dimly visible, which seemed to open its arms for 
both, with a blessing for one and a pardon for the other. All 
at once Jean Valjean put on his cap again, then walked 
rapidly along the bed, without looking at the Bishop, and 
went straight to the cupboard. He raised his crow-bar to 
force the lock, but as the key was in it, he opened it, and the 
first thing he saw was the plate-basket, which he seized. He 
hurried across the room, not caring for the noise he made, ro- 
entered the oratory, opened the window’, seized his stick, put 
the silver in his pocket, threw away the basket, leaped into 
the garden, bounded over the wall like a tiger, and fled. 

The next morning at sunrise Monseigneur Welcome was 
walking about the garden, when Madame Magloire came run- 
ning towards him in a state of great alarm. 

“ Monseigneur, Monseigneur ! ” she screamed, “ does your 
Grandeur know wrhere the plate basket is ? ” 

“ Yes/’ said the Bishop. 

SfcThe Lord be praised,” she continued ; I did not know 
what had become of it.” 

The Bishop had just picked up the basket in a flower-bed, 
and now handed it to Madame Magloire. Here it is,” he 
said. 

” Well ! ” she said, ” there is nothing in it ; where is the 
plate ? ” 

” Ah ! ” the Bishop replied, ” it is the plate that troubles 
your mind. Will, I do not Imow where that is.” 

”Good Lord! it is stolen, and that man who came last 
night is the robber.” 

In a twinkling Madame Mi^loire had run to the oratory, 
entered the alcove, and returned to the Bishop. He was 
stooping down and looking sorrowfully at a cochlearia, whose 
stem the basket had broken. He raised himself on hearing 
Madame Magloire scream, — 

” Monsejgneui, the man has gone ! the plate is stolen I 



42 


LES MISERABLES 

While uttering this exclamaltion her eyes fell on a corner 
of the garden where there were signs of climbing ; the coping 
of the wall had been torn away. 

“ That is the way he went ! he leaped into Cochefilet lane. 
4h, what an abomination ; he has stolen our plate ! ** 

The Bishop remained silent for a moment, then raised his 
earnest eyes, and said gently to Madame Magloire, 

“ By the way, was that plate ours ? ” 

Madame Magloire was speechless ; there was another in- 
terval of silence, after which the Bishop continued — 

“ Madame Magloire, I had wrongfully held back this silver, 
wdiich belonged to the poor. Who was this person ? evidently 
a poor man.” 

“ Good gracious ! ” Madame Magloire continued ; ** I do 
not care for it, nor does Mademdiselle, but we feel for Mon- 
seigneur. With what will Monseigneur eat now ? ” 

The Bishop looked at her in amazement. “Why, are 
there not pewter forks to be had ? ” 

Madame Magloire shrugged her shoulders. “ Pewter smells 

“ Then iron ! ” 

Madame Magloire made an expressive grimace. “Iron 
tastes.” * 

“ Well then,” said the Bishop, “ wood ! ” 

A few minutes later he was breakfasting at the saipe table 
at which Jean Valjean sat on the previous evening. While 
breakfasting Monseigneur Welcome gaily remarked to his 
sister, who said nothing, and to Madame Magloire, who 
growled m a low voice, that spoon and fork, even of wood, 
are not required to dip a piece of bread in a cup of milk, 

“ What an idea 1 ” Madame Magloire said, as she , went 
backwards and forwards, “ to receive a man like that, and lodge 
him by one’s side. And what a blessing it is that he only 
stole! Oh, Lord! the mere thought makes a%ody shudder,’* 
As the brother and sister were leaving the table there 
was a knock at the door. 

** Come in,” said the Bishop. 

door opened, and a strange and violent group appeared 
on the uphold. Three men were holding a fourth by the 
toUm. The three men were gendarmes, the fourth was Jean 
Valjean. A corporal, who apparently commanded the partV^ 
came m and walked up to the Bishop with a military 



LES MISERABLES 


43 


/* Monseigneur,” lie said. * 

At this word Jean Valjean, who was gloomy and crushed^ 
raised his head with a stupefied air. 

“ Monseigneur,” he muttered, “ then he is not the Cur6.” 

” Silence ! ” said a gendarme. “ This gentleman is Mon- 
seigneur the Bishop.” 

In the meanwhile Monseigneur Welcome had advanced 
as rapidly as his great age permitted. 

“Ah! there you are,” he said, looking at Jean Valjean. 
“I am glad to see you. Why, I gave you the candlesticks 
too, which are also silver, and will fetch you 200 francs. Why 
did you not take them away with the rest of the plate ? ” 

Jean Valjean opened his eyes, and looked at the Bishop 
with an expression which no human language could render. 

“ Monseigneur,” the corporal said, “ what this man told 
us was true then? We met him, and as he looked as if ha 
were running away, we arrested him. He had this plate — ** 

“ And he told you,” the Bishop interrupted, with a smile, 
*• that it was given to him by an old priest at whose house he 
passed the night ? I see it all. And you brought him back 
here ? That is a mistake.” 

“ In that case,” the corporal continued, “ we can let him go? ’• 

“ Of course,”, the Bishop answered. 

The .gendarmes loosed their hold of Jean Valjean, who 
tefftered back. 

“ Is it true that I am at liberty ? ” he said, in an almost 
inarticulate voice, and as if speaking in his sleep. 

“ Yes, you are let go ; don’t you understand ? ” said a 
gendarme. 

“ My friend,” the Bishop continued, “ before you go take 
your candlesticks.” 

He went to Jhe mantle-piecc, fetched the two candlesticks, 
and handed them to Jean Valjean. The two females watched 
him do so without a word, without a sign, without a look that 
could disturb the Bishop. Jean Valjean was trembling in all 
his limbs; he took the candlesticks mechanically, and with 
wandering looks. 

“ Now,” said the Bishop, “ go in peace. By the by, when 
^ou return, my friend, it is unnecessary to pass through the 
garden, for you can always enter, day and night, by the front 
door, which is only latched.” 



44 


LES MISERABLES 


Then, turning to the gendarfeies, he said, — 

“Gentlemen, you can retire.” 

They did so. Jean Valjean looked as if he were on the 
point of fainting ; the Bishop walked up to him, and said in 
a low voice, — 

“Never forget that you have promised me to employ. this 
money in becoming an honest man.” 

Jean Valjean, who had no recollection of having promised 
anything, stood silent The Bishop, who had laid a stress on 
these words, continued solemnly, — 

“Jean Valjean, my brother, you no longer belong to evil, 
but to good. I have bought your soul of you. I withdraw it 
from black thoughts and the spirit of perdition, and give it 
to God.” 


Jean Valjean was in a state of stupor. Without saying 
a word, he left the Bishop, and walked hastily across the 
fields, taking the roads and paths that offered themselves, 
without perceiving that he was going round and round. 
He wandered thus the entire morning, and though he had 
eaten nothing, he did not feel hungry. He was attacked by a 
muhitude of novel sensations ; he felt a sort of passion, but 
he did not know with whom. He could not have said whether 
he was affected or humiliated ; at times a 8t;range softeiiiirr 
came over him, against which he strove, and to which ho 
opposed the hardening of the last twenty years. ^ 

Indracribable thoughts were thus congregated within Iiim 
the whole day through. When the sun was sotting, and 
lOTgtl^ing on the pound the shadow of the smallest pebble, 
J^n Valjean was atting behind a bjjsh in a largo tawny and 

Alps on the 
steeple of a distant villa&lt;Te. 

Jean Valjean might be about three leagues fmm D and 

a path tl^t crossed the plain ran a few panes frL the bush* 

S httlTS contributed 



LES MISEBABLES 


45 


)Vliile singing the lad stopj^ every now and then to play 
at pitch and toss with some coins he held in his hand, which 
were probably his entire fortune. Among these coins was a 
two-franc piece. The lad stopped by the side of the bushes 
without seeing Jean Valjean, and threw up the handful of 
sous, all of wWch he had hitherto always caught on the back 
of his hand. This time the two-franc piece fell, and rolled 
up to Jean Valjean, who placed his foot upon it. But the 
boy had looked after the coin, and seen him do it ; he did not 
seem surprised, but walked straight up to the man. It was 
an utterly deserted spot; as far as eye could extend there 
was no one on the plain or the path. Nothing was audible, 
save the faint cries of a swarm of birds of passage passing 
through the sky at an immense height. The boy had his 
back turned to the sun, which wove golden threads in his 
hair, and suffused Joan Valj can’s face with a purpled, blood- 
ied hue. 

“Sir,” the little Savoyard said, with that childish con- 
fidence which is composed of ignorance and innocence, “ my 
coin ? ” 

' What is your name ? ” Jean Valjean said* 

** Little Gervais, sir.” 

“ Be off,” said Jean Valjean. 

“ Giye me my coin, if you please, sir.” 

Valjean hung his head, but said nothing. 

“ My coin,” the boy cried, “ my silver piece, my money.* 

It seemed as if Jean Valjean did not hear him, for the 
boy seized the collar of his blouse and shook him, and at the 
same time made an effort to remove the iron-shod shoe placed 
on his coin. 

“ I want my money, my forty-sous piece.” 

The boy be^n crying, and Jean Valjean raised his head# 
He was still sitting on the ground, and his eyes were misty. 
He looked at the lad with a sort of amazement, then stretched 
forth his hand to his stick, and shouted in a terrible voice, 
"Who is this!” 

“ I, sir,” the boy replied. ** Little Gervais ; give me back 
my two francs, if you please. Take away your foot, sir, if 
you please.” Then he grew irritated, though so little, and 
Umost threatening. 

" Come, will you remove your foot, I say I ” 



46 


LES MISERABLES 

# 

“Ah, it is you stiU,” said J^n Valjean, and ^springing yp, 
with his foot still held on the coin, he added, Will you bo 

ofi or not ? ” . , 1. . ,1. 

The startled boy looked at him, then began trembling 

from head to foot, and after a few moments of stupor ran off 
at full speed, without daring to look back or utter a cry. ^ In 
a few minutes the boy had disappeared. The sun liad set, 
and darkness collected around Jean \aljcan. He had eaten 
nothing all day, and w’as probably in a fever. Suddenly he 
started, for he felt the night chill ; he pulled his cap over his 
forehead, mechanically tried to cross and button his blouse, 
made a step, and stooped to pick up his stick. 

At this moment he perceived the two-franc piece, which 
his foot had half buried in the turf, and wdiich glistened 
among the pebbles. It had the effect of a galvanic shock 
upon him. “ What is this ? ** he muttered. He fell back three 
paces, then stopped, unable to take his eye from the spot his 
foot had trodden a moment before, as if the thing glistening 
there in the darkness had an open eye fixed upon him. In a 
few moments he dashed convulsively at the coin, picked it 
up, and began looking out into the plain, while shuddering 
like a straying wild beast which is seeking shefter. 

He saw nothing, night w^as falling, the plain w^aa cold and 
indistinct, and heavy violet mists rose in tile twilight. He 
set out rapidly in a certain direction, the one in which 
lad had gone. After going some thirty yards he stopped, 
looked and saw nothing ; then he shouted with all his strength, 
“ Little Gervais, little Gervais I ” He was silent, and waited, 
but there was no response. The country was deserted 
and gloomy, and he was surroundcS by space. There was 
nothing but a gloom in which his glance was lost, and a silence 
m which his voice was lost. 

He walked onwards and then began running, but from 
time to time he stopped, and shouted in the solitude with a 
voice the most formidable and agonizing that can beimagmed ; 

Little Gemis, little Gervais!” Assuredly, if the boy had 
heard him, he would have felt frightened, and not have shown 
nimseii; but the lad was doubtless a long way off by this 

quitted the Bishop’s house he was 
Ultea out of his former thoughts, and could not account for 



47 


LES MISEBABLES 

what was going on within him. He stiSened himself against 
the angelic deeds and gentle words of the old man : “ You 
have promised me to become an honest man. I purchase 
your soul ; I withdraw it from the spirit of perverseness, and 
give it to God.” This incessantly recurred to him, and he 
opposed to this celestial indulgence that pride which is with- 
in us as the fortress of evil. He felt instinctively that this 
priest’s forgiveness was the greatest and most formidable as- 
sault by which he had yet been shaken ; that his hardening 
would be permanent if he resisted this clemency ; that if he 
yielded he must renounce that hatred with which the actions of 
other men had filled his soul during so many years, and which 
pleased him ; that this time he must either conquer or be 
vanquished, and that the struggle, a colossal and final struggle, 
had begun between his wickedness and that man’s good- 
ness. 

In the presence of all these gleams he walked on like a 
drunken man. While he went on thus with haggard eyes, 
had he any distinct perception of what the result of his ad- 
venture at D might be ? Did he hear all that mysterious 

buzzing which warns or disturbs the mind at certain moments 
of life ? Did a voice whisper in his ear that he had just 
gone through the solemn hour of his destiny, that no middle 
waj^ was now left him, and that if he were not henceforth 
the best of men he would be the worst ; that he must now 
ascend higher than the bishop, or sink lower than the galley- 
slave ? 

One thing which he did not suspect is certain, that he 
was no longer the same^man ; all was changed in him, and 
it was no longer in his power to get rid of the fact that the 
Bishop had spoken to him and taken his hand. While in 
this mental condition he met Little Gervais, and robbed 
him of his two francs : why did he so ? assuredly he could not 
explain it. Was it a final, and as it were supreme, efiort of 
the evil thought ho had brought from the bagne, a remainder 
of impulse, a result of what is called in Statics acquired 
force ? ” It was so, and was perhaps also even less than that. 
Let us say it simply, it was not he who robbed, it was not 
4he man, but the bnite beast that through habit and instinct 
stupidly placed its foot on the coin, while the intellect was 
struggling with such novel and extraordinary sensations. 



48 LES MISEBABLES 

When the intellect woke again and saw this brutish action^ 
Jean Valjcan recoiled with agony and uttert&gt;d a cry of horror. 
It was a curious phenomenon, and one only possible in the 
situation ho was in, that, in robbing the boy of that money, 
he committed a deed of which he was no longer capable. 

Jean Valjean wept for a long time, and sobbed with more 
weakness than a woman, more terror than a child. While he 
wept the light grew brighter in his brain, an extraordinary 
light, at once ravishing and terrible. His past life, his first 
fault, his long expiation, his external brutalization, his inter- 
nal hardening, his hberation, accompanied by so many plans 
of vengeance, what had happened at the Bishop’s, the last 
thing he had done, the robbery of the boy, a crime the more 
cowardly and monstrous because it took place after the 
Bishop’s forgiveness — all this recurred to him, but in a light 
which he had never before seen. He looked at his life, and 
it appeared to him horrible ; at his soul, and it appeared to 
him frightful. Still a soft light was shed over both, and he 
fancied that he saw Satan by the light of Paradise. 

How many hours did he weep thus t what did he do after- 
wards ? whither did he go ? No one ever kjiew. It was 
stated, how’’ever, that on this very night the mail carrier from 
Grenoble, who arrived at D at about 3 A.m., while pass- 

ing through the street where the Bisliop’s Palace stood, saw 
a man kneeling on the pavement in the attitude of prayer in 
front of Monseigneur Welcome’s door. 


CHAPTER IH 

In the year 1817 four young Parisians played a capital joke, 
^cse Parisians came, one from Toulouse, the second from 
Limoges, the third from Cahors, the fourth from Montauban, 
but they were students, and thus Parisians ; for studying 
being bom in Paris. These young men were 
msignzficant, four every-day specimens, neither good nor 
ignorant, geniuses nor idiots. 

The names of these Oscars were Felix Tholomy&amp;s, Listolier. 
Fmeuil, and Blachevclle. Of course each had a mistress i 
BlacheveUe loved Favorite, so called because she had bee^ 
to England; Listolier adored Dahlia, who had taken the 



49 


LES MIS&amp;BABLES 

name of a flower for her nom de guerre; Fameufl idolized 
Zephine, an abridgement of Josephine ; while Tholomy^ had 
Fantine, called the Blonde, owing to her magnificent sun- 
coloured hair. Favorite, Dahlia, ^phine, and Fantine were 
four exquisitely pretty girls, still to some extent work-women. 
They had not entirely laid down the needle, and though de- 
ranged by their amourettes, they still had in their faces a 
remnant of the serenity of toil, and in their souls that flower 
of honesty which in a woman survives the first fall. One of 
the four was called the young one, because she was the 
youngest, and one called the old one, who was only three- 
and-twenty. To conceal nothing, the three first were more 
experienced, more reckless, and had flown further into the 
noise of life than Fantine the Blonde, who was still occupied 
with her first illusion. 

Fantme was one of those beings who spring up from the 
dregs of the people; issuing from the lowest depths of the 
social darkness, she had on her forehead the stamp of the 
anonymous and the unknown. She was bom at M. sur M. ; 
of what parents 7 who could say 7 she had never known either 
father or mother. She called herself Fantine, and why 
Fantine 7 she was never known by any other name. At the 
period of her birth, the Directory was still in existence. She 
hadjj^o family name, as she had no family ; and no Christian 
name, as the Church was abolished. She accepted the name 
given her by the first passer-by who saw her mnning bare- 
footed about the streets. She was called little Fantine, and 
no one knew any more. This human creature came into the 
world in that way. At the age of ten, Fantine left the town, 
and went into service with farmers in the neighbourhood. 
At the age of fifteen she went to Paris, “ to seek her fortune.” 
Fantine was pretty and remained pure as long as she could. 
She was a charming blonde, with handsome teeth ; she had 
gold and pearls for her dower, but the gold was on her head, 
and the pearls in her mouth. 

She worked for a livelihood ; and then she loved, still for 
the sake of living, for the heart is hungry too. She loved 
Tholomy^ ; it was a pastime for him, but a passion with her* 
streets of the Quartier Latin, which are thronged with 
students and grisettes, saw the beginning of this dream. 
Fantine, in the labyrinth of the Pantheon HiU, where so 



50 LES MISERABLES 

many adventures are fastened and unfastened, long shunned 
Tholomyes, but in such a way as to meet him constantly. 
There is a manner of avoiding which resembles seeking — in a 
word, the eclogue was played. 

Blachevclle, Listolier, and Fameuil formed a sort of group, 
of which Tholomyes was the head, for it was he who had the 
wit. Tholomyes was the antique old student ; he was rich, 
for ho had an income of 4000 francs a year, a splendid scandal 
on the Montagne St. Genevieve. TholomyAs was a man of 
the world, thirty years of age, and in a bad state of preserva- 
tion. He was wrinkled and had lost teeth, and he had an in- 
cipient baldness, of which himself said without sorrow : ‘‘ The 
skull at thirty, the knee at forty.” He had but a poor diges- 
tion, and one of his eyes was -permanently watery. But in 
proportion as his youth was extinguished, his gaiety became 
brighter ; he substituted jests for his teeth, joy for his hair, 
irony for his health, and his weeping eye laughed incessantly. 
One day Tholomyes took the other three aside, made an ora- 
cular gesture, and said — 

“It is nearly a year that Fantine, Dahlia, Zephine, and 
Favorite have been asking us to give them a surprise, and 
we promised solemnly to do so. They are always talking 
about it, especially to me. In the same wajias the old women 
of Naples cry to Saint Januarius, ‘ Yellow face, perfom;^our 
miracle ! ’ our beauties incessantly say to me, ‘ Tholomyes, 
when will you be delivered of your surprise ? * At the same 
time our parents are writing to us, so let us kill two birds 
with one stone. The moment appears to me to have arrived, 
so let us talk it over.” • 

Upon this, Tholomyes lowered his voice, and mysteriously 
uttered something so amusing that a mighty and enthusiastic 
laugh burst from four mouths simultaneoiisly, and Blachc- 
velle exclaimed, “That is an idea!” An estaminet full of 
smoke presenting itself, they went in, and the remainder of 
their conference was lost in the tobacco clouds. The result 
of the gloom was a brilliant pleasure excursion, that took 
place on the following Sunday, to which the four yoimg men 
invited their girls. 

It ia difficult to form an idea at the present day of whaf^ a 
pleasure party of students and grisettes was four-and-forty 
years ago. Paris has no longer the same environs ; the face 



LES MISEBABLES 


61 


of vahat may be termed circum-Parisian life has completely 
changed during half a century ; where there was the coucou, 
there is a railway-carriage; where there was the fly-boat, 
there is now the steamer; people talk of Fecamp as people 
did in those days of St. Cloud. Paris of 1862 is a city which 
has Krance for its suburbs. 

The four couples conscientiously accomplished all the 
rustic follies possible at that day. It was a bright warm 
summer day ; they rose at five o’clock ; then they went to St. 
Cloud in the stage coach, looked at the dry cascade, and ex- 
claimed, “ Tiiat must be grand when there is water ; ” break- 
fasted at the Tete Noire, where Castaing had not yet put up, 
ran at the ring in the Quincunx of the great basin, ascended 
into the Diogenes lantern, gambled for macaroons at the 
roulette board by the Sevres bridge, culled posies at Puteaux. 
bought reed-pipes at Ncuilly, ate apple tarts everywhere, and 
were prefectly happy. The girls prattled and chattered like 
escaped linnets; they were quite wild, and every now and 
then gave the young men little taps. 

Fantino was the personification of joy. Her splendid 
teeth had evidently been made for laughter by nature. She 
carried in her hand, more willingly than on her head, her 
little straw bonnet, with its long streamers. Her thick, light 
hair, inclined to float, and which had to be done up continu- 
ally, seemed made for the flight of Galatea under the willows. 
Her rosy lips prattled enchantingly ; the corners of her 
mouth voluptuously raised, as in the antique masks of Erigone, 
seemed to encourage boldness ; but her long eye-lashes, full 
of shade, were discreetly, lowered upon the seductiveness of 
the lower part of the face, as if to command respect. Her 
whole toilet had something flaming about it ; she had on a 
dress of mauve ^barege, little buskin slippers, whose strings 
formed an X on her i^e, open-worked stockings, and that 
sort of muslin spencer, a Marseillais invention, whose name 
of canezou, a corrupted pronunication of qamze Aoik at the 
Cannebi&amp;re, signifies fine weather and heat. The three others, 
who were less timid, as we said, bravely wore low-necked 
dresses, which in summer are very graceful and attractive, 

S der bonnets covered with flowers ; but by the side of this 
Id dress, Fantine’s oanezou, with its transparency, in^- 
cretion, and reticences, at once concealing and displaying. 



52 


LES MISERABLES 


seemed a provocative invention of decency ; and the famona 
court of Love, presided over by the Viscomtcsse de Cette 
with the sea-green eyes, would have probably bestowed the 
prize for coquettishness on this canezou, which competed for 
that of chastity. The simplest things are frequently the cleverest. 

We have said that Fantine was joy itself; she was also 
modesty. Any one who watched her closely would have seen, 


through all this intoxication of youth, the season, and love, an 
invincible expression of restraint and modesty. She remained 
slightly astonished, and this chaste astonishment distinguishes 
Psyche from Venus. Fantine had the long white delicate 
fingers of the Vestal who stirs up the sacred fire with a golden 
bodkin. Though she had refused nothing, as we shall soon 
see, to Tholoinyes, her face, when in repose, was supremely 
virginal ; a species of stem and almost austere dignity sud- 
denly invaded it at certain hours, and nothing was so singular 
and affecting as to see gaiety so rapidly extinguished on it, 
and contemplation succeed cheerfulness without any tran- 
sition. This sudden gravity, which was at times sternly 
marked, resembled the disdain of a goddess. Her forehead, 
nose, and chin ofl[ered that equilibrum of outline which is 
"\rery distinct from the equilibrum of proportion, and produces 
the harmony of the face ; in the characteri^ic space between 
the b^e of the nose and the upper lip, she had that imper- 
ceptible and charming curve, that mysterious sign of chastity, 
which made Barbarossa faU in love with a Diana found m 
the nuns of Iconium. Love is a fault ; be it so ; but Fantine 
WM innocence floating on the surface of the fault. 

Ihe four happy couples enjoyed the sun, the fields, the 
trees- And in this community of Paradise, 
talldng, dancing, chaaing 
bmdweed, wetting their.8tockinm in^ 

u u reswtanoe, and loved. “ You alwara 

look strange.” Favorite said to her. alway. 

tnmivf t^ee o’clock, the four couploi, wild with delight 
into the Monies Russes, a eiitgidar building, wSh 

0* Beaujon anf S 

mysees. From tune to time Favonte exclaimed,— ^ 



LES MISERA6LES 


63 

“.Where’s the surprise ? I insist on the surprise.” 

“Have patience,” Tholomyds answered. 

The Russian mountain exhausted, they thought about 
dinner, and the radiant eighty at length somewhat weary, put 
into the Cabaret Bombarda, an ofishoot established in the 
Chaujps Elysees by that famous restaurateur Bombarda, 
whose si^ could be seen at that time at the Rue de Rivoli 
by the side of the Delorme Passage. 

A large, but ugly room, with an alcove and a bed at the 
end (owing to the crowded state of the houses on Sundays 
they were compelled to put up with it) ; two windows from 
which the quay and river could be contemplated through the 
elm-trees ; a magnificent autumn sun illumining the windows ; 
two tables, on one of thorn a triumphal mountain of bottles, 
mixed up with hats and bonnets, at the other one four couples 
joyously seated round a mass of dishes, plates, bottles, and 
glasses, pitchers of beer, mingled with wine bottles ; but little 
order on the table, and some amount of disorder xmder it. 

** Ils faisaient sous la table 
Un bruit, un triqiie-irao de pieds epouTantable,*' 

as Moliire says. Such was the state of the pastoral which 
began at 5 a.m. at half-past 4 p.m. the sun was declining 
and appetite was satisfied. 

Ld^e talk and table talk are equally indescribable, for the 
first is a cloud, the second smoke. Fantine and Dahlia were 
humming a tune, Tholomyis was drinking, Zephinc laughing, 
Fantine smiling, Listolier was blowing a penny trumpet 
bought at St. Cloud, Favorite was looking tenderly at Blache- 
vellc and saying — 

“ Blachevellc, I adore you.” 

This led to B||ichevollo asking, — 

“ What would you do. Favorite, if I ceased to love you t ” 

“ I ? ” Favorite exclaimed, “ oh, do not say that, even in 
fun I if you ceased to love me I would run after you, throw water 
over you, and have you arrested.” 

Blachevelle smiled with the voluptuous fatuity of a man 
whose self-esteem is tickled. Dahlia, while still eating, whis- 
pered to Favorite through the noise, — 

“ You seem to be very fond of your Blachevelle ? ” 

“I detest him,” Favorite answered in the same key, as 



54 


LES MISERABLES 


she seized her fork again. ‘^He is miserly, and I prefef the 
little fellow who lives opposite to mo. He is a very good- 
looking young man ; do you know him ? It is easy to see 
that he wants to be an actor, and I am fond of actors. No 
matter, I tell Blachevelle that I adore him : what a falsehood, 
eh, what a falsehood ! ” 

After a pause, Favorite continued, — 

“Dahlia, look you, I am sad. It has done nothing but 
rain all the summer : the wind annoys me, Blachevelle is ex- 
cessively mean, there are hardly any green peas in the market, 
one docs not know what to cat; I have the spleen, as the 
English say, for butter is so dear, and then it is horrifying 
that we are dining in a room with a bed in it, and that dis- 
gusts me with life.” 

At lenf^h, when all were singing noisily, or talking all to- 
gether, Tholomy^ interfered. 


Let us not talk hap-hazard or too quickly,” he exclaimed 
we must not meditate if we desire to be striking ; too much 
improvisation stupidly empties the mind. Gentlemen, no 
haste ; let us mingle majesty with our gaiety, eat contempla- 
bvely, and let festina lenti bo our rule. We must not hurry. 
Ix»ok at the Spring, if it goes ahead too fast it is floored, that is 
to say, nipped by frost. Excessive zeal ryins the peach and 
apneot trws; excessive zeal kills the grace and jay of good 
dmners. No zeal, gentlemen ; Grimaud do la Reyni^ffi is of 
the same opinion as Talleyrand.” 

« i’®hellion broke out in the party 
..Solomy^s, leave us at peace,” said BlacheveUo. 

^ Down with the tyrant,” said.Fatneuil. 

Sunday exists,” Listolicr added. 

« »” .E’ameuil remarked again. 

(moa “rega«i my calmness" 



LES MISERABLES 


65 


necessarily worthy of enthusiasA and respect. Far be it from 
me to insult puna : I honour them according to their deserts, 
and no more. All the most august, sublime, and charming 
members of humanity have made puns : as, for instance, 
iEschylus on Polynices, and Cleopatra on Octavius. And 
note the fact that Cleopatra’s pun preceded the battle of 
Actiufn, and that, were it not for that pun, no one would 
know the town of Toryne, a Greek word signifying a pot- 
ladle. This granted, I return to my exhortation. Brethren, 
I repeat, no zeal, no row, no excess, not even in puns, fun, 
and playing upon words. Listen to me, for I possess the 
prudence of A'mphiaraiis and the baldness of Caesar ; a limit 
must even be placed on the rebus, for est modus in rebus. 
There must be a limit even to dinners ; you are fond of apple- 
puffs, ladies, but no abuse ; even in the matter of apple-puffs, 
good sense and art are needed. Gluttony chastises the glut- 
ton ; gula punishes gulax. Indigestion was sent into the 
world to read a lecture to our stomachs ; and, bear this in 
mind, each of our passions, even love, has a stomach which 
must not be filled too full. In all things, we must write be- 
times the word finis, we must restrain ourselves when it be- 
comes urgent, put a bolt on our appetites, lock up our fancy, 
and place ourselves under arrest. The wise man is he who 
knows how, at a given moment, to arrest himself.” 

At^is moment, Favorite crossed her arms, and threw her 
head back ; she then looked boldly at Tholomyes, and said : 

“ Well, how about the surprise ? ” 

** That is true, the hour has arrived,” Tholomyes answered. 
“ Gentlemen, it is time to surprise the ladies. Pray wait for 
us a nv^ment,” 

“ It begins with a kiss,” said BlacheveUe. 

" On the forehead,” Tholomyes added. 

Each solemnly Kissed the forehead of his mistress : then 
they proceeded to the door in Indian file, with a finger on 
their lip. Favorite clapped her hands as they went out. 

“ It is amusing already,” she said. 

”Do not be long,” Fantine murmured, ”we are waiting 
for you.” 

The girls, when left alone, leant out of the windows, two 
b/*two, talking, looking out, and wondering. They watched 
the young men leave the Bombarda cabaret aim in arm ; they 



66 


LES MISEBABLES 

turned round, made laughing* signs, and disappeared in that 
dusty Sunday mob which once a week invaded the Champs 
Blys^es. 

“ Do not be long,” Fantine cried. 

“What will they bring us?” said Zephine. 

** I am certain it will be pretty,” said Dahlia, 

“ For my part,” Favorite added, “ I hope it will be set in 
gold.” 

They were soon distracted by the movement on the quay, 
which they could notice through the branches of the lofty 
trees, and which greatly amused them. It was the hour for 
the mail-carts and stages to start, and nearly all those bound 
for the South and West at that time passed through the 
Champs Elys6es. Every moment -some heavy vehicle, painted 
yeUow and black, heavily loaded and rendered shapeless by 
trunks and valises, dashed through the crowd with the sparlm 
of a forge, the dust representing the smoko. This confusion 
amused the girls. 

One of these vehicles, which could hardly be distinguished 
through the branches, stopped for a moment, and then started 
again at a gallop. This surprised Fantine. 

“ That is strange,” she said, ” I fancied that the diligence 
never stopped.” 

Favorite shrugged her shoulders. * 

“This Fantine is really amazing, and is surprised 9fc the 
simplest things. Let us suppose that I am a trav^er and 
say to the guard of the stage coach, ‘ I will walk on, and you 
can pick me up on the quay as you pass.* The coach passes, 
sees me, stops and takes me in. That is done every day ; you 
are ignorant of life, my dear.” * 

Some time elapsed; all at once Favorite started as if 
waking from sleep. 

“ Well,** she said, “ where is the surprise ? ** 

“ Oh yes,** Dahlia continued, “ the famous surprise.** 

“They are a long time,** said Fantine. 

Just as Fantine had ended this sigh, the waiter who had 
served the dinner came in; he held in his hand somethine 
that resembled a letter. ® 

“ What is that T ** Favorite asked. 

The waiter answered, — 

“ It is a paper which the gentlemen left for you, ladies.** 



67 


LE3 MISEBABLES 
« 

•* Why did you not bring it to us at once ? 

•• Because the gentlemen,” the waiter went on, “ ordered 
that it should not be delivered to you for an hour.” 

Favorite snatched the paper from the waiter’s hands, it was 
really a letter. 

“ Stay,” she said, ** there is no address, but the following 
words are written on it : This is the bubpeisb.” She quickly 
opened the letter and read (she could read). 

“ Well-beloved ! 

“ Ejiow that we have relatives : perhaps you are not 
perfectly cognizant what they are; it means fathers and 
mothers in the civil, puerile, and honest code. Well, these 
relatives are groaning ; these old people claim us as their own ; 
these worthy men and women call us prodigal sons. They 
desire our return home, and ofEer to kill the fatted calf. We 
obey them, as we are virtuous ; at the hour when you read 
this, five impetuous steeds will be conveying us back to our 
papas and mammas. We are going, to quote the language of 
Bossuet ; we are going, gone. We are flying away in the 
arms of Laflitte and on the wings of Caillard. The Toulouse 
coach is dragging us away from the abyss, and that abyss is 
yourselves, pretty dears. We are re-entering society, duty, 
and order, at a shhrp trot, and at the rate of nine miles an 
hour, ^t is important for our country that we should be- 
come, like everybody else, Prefects, fathers of a family, game- 
keepers, and Councillors of State. Bevere us, for we are 
sac^cing ourselves. Dry up your tears for us rapidly, and 
get a substitute speedily. If this letter lacerates your hearts, 
treat it in the same fashion. Good bye. For nearly twa 
years we rendered you happy, so do not owe us any grudge. 

(Sijjned) Blachevelle. 

Fameuil. 

Listolior. 

** PS. The dinner is paid for. Felix Tholomy&amp;.” 

The four girls looked at each other, and Favorite was the 
first to break the silence. 

“I don’t care,” she said, **it is a capital joke. It must 
hajie been Blachevelle who had that idea, it makes me in 
love with him. So soon as he has left me 1 am beginning 
to grow fond of him ; the old story.” 



58 LES MISERABLES 

“ No ” said Dalilia, “ that is an idea of Tholomjfis. . That 
can be easily seen.” 

“ In that case,” Favorite retorted, “ down with Blachevelle, 
and long live Tholomyes ! ” 

And they burst into a laugh, in which Fantine joined ) an 
hour later though, when she returned to her bed-roojn, she 
burst into tears : he was, as we have said, her first love ; she 
had yielded to Tholomyes as to a husband, and the poor girl 
had a child. 

There was in the first quarter of this century a sort of 
pot-house at Montfermeil, near Paris, which no longer exists. 
It was kept by a couple of the name of Th^nardior, and was 
situated in the Rue du Boulangfer. Over the door a board 
was nailed to the wall, and on this board was painted some- 
thing resembling a man carrying on his back another man, 
who wore large gilt general’s epaulettes with silver stars ; red 
dabs represented blood, and the rest of the painting was 
smoke, probably representing a battle. At the bottom 
could be read the inscription : The Sergeant op Waterloo, 

Though nothing is more common than a cajij at a pot-house 
door, the vehicle, or rather fragment of a vehicle, which blocked 
up the street in front of the Sergeant of Tlaterloo, one spring 
evening in 1818, w'ould have certainly attracted the attention 
of any painter who had passed that way. It was the fore-part 
of one of those wains used in wood countries for dragging 
planks and trunks of trees ; it was composed of a massive iron 
axle-tree, in which a heavy pole was imbedded and supported 
by two enormous w-hecls. The whole thing was sturdy, crush- 
ing, and ugly, and it might have passed for the carriage of a 
monster gun. The ruts had given the wheels, felloes, spokes, 
axle-trees, and pole, a coating of mud, a hid%ous yellow plaster, 
much like that with which cathedrals are so often adorned. 
The wood-work was hidden by mud and the iron by rust. 
Under the axle-tree was festooned a heavy chain, suited for a 
convict Goliath. This chain made you think, not of the wood it 
was intended to secure, but of the mastodons and mammoths 
for which it would have served as harness ; it had the air of a 
Cyclopean and superhuman bagne and seemed removed from 
wme monster. Homer would have bound Polyphemus ^tb 
It, and Shakespeare, Caliban. 



LES MISERABLES ^9 

? 

Why was this thing at this place in the street ? First, to 
block it up ; secondly, to finish the rusting proems. There 
is in the old social order, a multitude of institutions which 
may be found in tlie same way in the open air, and which have 
no other reasons for being there. The centre of the chain 
hung rather close to the ground, and on the curve, as on the 
rope of a swing, two little girls were seated on this evemng, 
in an exquisite embrace, one about two years and a half, the 
other eighteen months ; the younger being in the arms of the 
elder. An artfully-tied handkerchief prevented them from 
falling, for a mother had seen this frightful chain, and said, 
** What a famous plaything for my children ! ” The two 
children, who were prettily dressed and with some taste, were 
radiant; they looked like two roses among old iron; their 
eyes were a triumph, their healthy cheeks laughed ; one had 
auburn hair, the other was a brunette ; their innocent faces 
had a look of surprise ; a flowering shrub a little distance off 
sent to passers-by a perfume which seemed to come from 
them ; and the younger displayed her nudity with the chaste 
indecency of childhood. Above and around their two delicate 
heads, moulded in happiness and bathed in light, the gigantic 
wain, black with rust, almost terrible, and bristling with 
curves and savage angles, formed the porch of a cavern, as it 
were. A Jew yards off, and seated in the inn door, the 
mothel? a woman of no very pleasing appearance, but touch- 
ing at this moment, was swinging the children by the help of 
a long cord, and devouring them with her eyes, for fear of an 
accident, with that.anims3 and heavenly expression peculiar 
to maternity. At each osculation the hideous links produced 
a shnrp, sound, resembling a cry of anger. The little girls 
were delighted ; the setting sun mingled with the joy, and 
nothing could be sc^ charming as this C 4 ipTice of accident which 
had made of a Titanic chain a cherub’s swing. While playing 
with her little ones, the mother sang, terribly out of tune, a 
romance, very celebrated at that day, — 

•‘D le faut, dUait un guerrier.** 

Her song and contemplation of her daughters prevented her 
heflting and seeing what took place in the street. Some one, 
however, had approached her, as she began the first couplets 



60 LES MISERABLES 

of a romance, and suddenly 'she heard a voice saying clpse to 
her ear,— 

** You have two pretty children, Madame, 

“ — a la belle et tendre Imogene,” 

the mother answered, continuing her song, and then turned 
her head. A woman was standing a few paces from her, who 
also had a child, which she was carrying in her arms. She 
also carried a heavy bag. This woman’s child was one of the 
most divine creatures possible to behold ; she was a girl be- 
tween two and three years of age, and could have vied with 
the two other little ones in the coquettishness of her dress. 
She had on a hood of fine linen, ribbons at her shoulders, and 
Valenciennes lace in her cap. Her raised petticoats displayed 
her white, dimpled, fine thigh. Her eyes were very large, 
and she had magnificent lashes, for she was asleep. She was 
sleeping with the absolute confidence peculiar to her age ; a 
mother’s arms are made of tenderness, and children sleep 
soundly in them. As for the mother, she looked grave and 
sorrowful, and was dressed like a work-girl who was trying to 
become a country-woman again. She was young ; was she 
pretty ? perhaps so ; but in this dress she did not appear so. 
Her hair, a light lock of w^hich peeped out, seemed very thick, 
but was completely hidden beneath a nun’s hood; ugly, 
tight, and fastened under h^ chin. Her eyes lookA as if 
they had not been dry for a long time ; she had a fatigued 
and rather sickly air, and she looked at the child sleeping in 
her arms in the manner peculiar to a mother who has suckled 
her babe. A large blue handkerchief like those served out 
to the invalids, folded like a shawl, clumsily hid hej shape. 
Her hands were rough and covered with red spots, and her 
fore-finger was hardened and tom by th^ nee^e. She had 
on a brown cloth cloak, a cotton gown, and heavy shoes. It 
was Fantine. 

It was difficult to recognize her, but, after an attentive 
examination, she still possessed her beauty. As for her toi- 
lette, that aerian toilette of muslin and ribbons which seemed 
made of gaiety, folly, and music, to be full of bells, and per- 
fumed with lilacs, — ^it had faded away like the dfljszling hoar- 
frost which looks like diamonds in the sun; it melts ®id 
leaves the branch quite black. * 



LES MISEBABLES 

Fantine remained alone when^he father of her child had 
gone away — alas I such ruptures are irrevocable. She found 
herself absolutely isolated ; she had lost her habit of working, 
and had gained a taste for pleasure. Led away by her liaison 
with Tholomy^ to despise the little trade she knew, she had 
neglect^ed her connexion, and it was lost. She had no re- 
source, Fantine could hardly read, and could not write ; she 
had been merely taught in childhood to sign her name, and 
she had sent a letter to Tholomyte, then a second, then a third, 
through a public writer, but TholomyJs did not answer one of 
them. One day Fantine heard the gossips say, while look- 
ing at her daughter, “Children like that are not regarded 
seriously, people shrug their shoulders at them.” Then she 
thought of Tholomyte, who shrugged his shoulders at her 
child, and did not regard the innocent creature seriously, and 
her heart turned away from this man. What was she to do 
now ? She knew not where to turn. She had committed a 
fault, but the foundation of her nature, we must remember, 
was modesty and virtue. She felt vaguely that she was on 
the eve of falling into distress, and gliding into worse. She 
needed courage, and she had i^ The idea occurred to her of 
returning to her native town M. but M. There some one 
might Imow her, and give her work; but she must hide her 
faidt. And she vaguely glimpsed at the possible necessity of 
a sepafttion more painful stiU than the first ; her heart was 
contracted, but she formed her resolution. Fantine, as we 
shall see, possessed the stem bravery of Ufe. She had already 
valiantly given up dress ; she dressed in calico, and had put 
all her silk ribbons and lapes upon her daughter, the only 
vanity left her, and it was a holy one. She sold aD she pos- 
sessed, which brought her in 200 francs ; and when she had 
paid W little del^, she had only about 80 francs left. At 
the age of two-and-twenty, on a fine Spring morning, she left 
Paris, carrying her child on her back. Any one who had seen 
them pass would have felt pity for them ; the woman had 
nothing in the world but her child, and the child nothing but 
her mother in her world. Fantine had suckled her child] 
this had bent her chest, and she was coughing a little. 

About mid-day, after resting herself now and then by 
tr^elling from time to time, at the rate of three or four 
leagues an hour, in what were then called the “ little vehicles 



6^ LES MISERABLES 

of the suburbs of Paris,” Fantine found herself at Montf^rmeiL 
As she passed the Sergeant of Waterloo, the two little girls 
in their monster swing had dazzled her, and she stopped 
before this vision of joy. She looked at them with great emo- 
tion, for the presence of angels in an announcement of Para- 
dise. These two little creatures were evidently Jiappyl 
She looked then, and admired them with such tenderness 
that at the moment when the mother was drawing breath 
between two verses of her song, she could not refrain from say- 
ing to her what we have already recorded. 

You have two pretty cliildren, Madame.” 

The most ferocious creatures are disp^rmed by a caress 
given to their little ones. The mother raised her head, 
thanked her, and bade her sit down on the door bench. The 
two women began talking. 

” My name is Madame Th6nardier,” the mother of the little 
ones said, “we keep this inn.” 

This Madame Thenardier was a red-headed, thin, angular 
woman, the soldier’s wife in all its ugliness, and, strange to 
say, with a languishing air which she owed to reading ro- 
mances, She \va8 a finikin woman, for old romances, by 
working on the imaginations of landladies, produce that 
effect. She was still young, scarce thirty. If this woman, 
now sitting, had been standing up, perhaps her height and 
colossal proportions, fitting for a show, would have at once 
startled the traveller, destroyed her confidence, and prevented 
what we have to record. A pemon sitting instead of standing 
up — destinies hang on this. 

The woman told her story wijh some modification. She 
was a work-girl, her husband was dead ; she could get no work 
in Paris, and was going to seek it elsewhere, in her native town. 
She had left Paris that very morning on foqf ; as she felt tired 
from carrying her child, she had travelled by the stage coach to 
Villemomble, from that place she walked to Montfermeil* 
The little one had walked a little, but not much, for she was so 
young, and so she had been obliged to carry her, and the darling 
had gone to sleep,— and as she said this she gave her daughter 
a passionate kiss, which awoke her. The babe opened her 
ey^, large blue eyes like her mother’s, and gazed with that 
serious air of infants, which is a mystery of their lumi^us 
innocence in the presence of our twilight virtues.- Then the 



S MISERABLES 


63 


cMld began laughing, and, thought its mothei had to check it, 
slipped down to the ground with the uiidauntable energy 
of a little creature wishing to run. All at once, she noticed 
the other two children in their swing, stopped short, and put 
out her tongue as a sign of admiration. Mother Thenardier 
unfastened her children, took them out of the swing, and said, — 
“Play about all three.” 

Such ages soon grow tame, and in a minute the little Th6- 
nardiers were playing with the new comer at making holes 
ill the ground, which was an immense pleasure. The stranger 
child was very merry ; the goodness of the mother is written 
in the gaiety of the baby. She had picked up a piece of wood 
which she used as a spade, and was energetically digging a 
grave large enough for a fly. The two went on talking. 

“ What’s the name of your bantling ? ” 

“ Cosette.” 

For Cosette read Euphrasie, for that was the child’s real 
name, but the mother had converted Euphrasie into Cosette, 
through that gentle, graceful instinct peculiar to mothers and 
the people, which changes Josefa into Pepita, and Fran 9 oise 
into Sellette. It is a species of derivation which deranges 
and disconcerts the entire science of etymologists. We know 
a grandmother who contrived to make out of Theodore, Gnon, 
“ What is her a^ ? ” 

“Goieg on for three.” 

‘•Just the same age as my eldest.” 

“How soon children get to know one another,** Mother 
Th6nardier exclaimed ; “ why, they might be taken for three 
sisters.” 

The word was probably th&amp; spark which the other mother 
had been waiting for ; she seized the speaker’s hand, looked 
at her fixedly, and -said, — 

“ Will you take charge of my child for me ? ” 

The woman gave one of those starts of surprise which are 
neither assent nor refusal. Fantine continued, — 

“Look ye, 1 cannot take the child with me to my town 
for when a woman has a baby, it is a hard matter j(or her to 
get a situation. People are so foolish in our part. It was 
Heaven that made me pass in &amp;ont of your inn ; when I saw 
youiv little ones so pretty, so clean, so happy, it gave me a 
turn. 1 said to myself, ‘ She is a kind mother.* It is so S 



U &lt; LES MISEBABLES 

tT * 

they will be three sisters. fThen I shall not be before I 
come back. Will you take care of my child ? ” * 

“ We will see,” said Mother Thenardicr. 

“ I would pay six francs a month.” 

Here a man’s voice cried from the back of the tap-room, — 
“ Can’t be done under seven, and six months paid in ad- 
vance.” 

“Six times seven are forty-two,” said the landlady. 

“I will pay it,” said the mother. 

** And seventeen francs in addition for extra expenses,” 
the man’s voice added. 

“Total fifty-seven francs,” said Madame Thenardier, and 
through these figures she sang vaguely, — 

“ II le faut disait im guerricr.’* 

“I will pay it,” the mother said; “I have eighty francs, 
and shall have enough left to getirome on foot. I shall earn 
money there, and so soon as I have a little I will com&amp;iuid 
fetch my darling.” 

The man’s voice continued, — 

“ Has the little one a stock of clothing ? ” 

“ It is my husband,” said Mother Thenardier, 

” Of course she has clothes, poor little treasure. I saw it 
was your husband ; and a fine stock of cl&lt;Tthes too, a wonder- 
ful stock, a dozen of everything, and silk frocks like a lady. 
The things are in my bag.” 

“They must be handed over,” the man’s voice remarked. 
“Of course they must,” said the mother, “it would be 
funny if I left my child naked.” 

The master’s f^e appeared. ^ 

“All right,” he said. 

The bargain was concluded, the mother spent the night at 
the inn, paid her money and left her child, fastened up her bag, 
which was now light, and started the next morning with the 
intention of returning soon. Such departures are arranged 
calmly, but they entail despair. A neighbour’s wife saw the 
mother going away, and went home saying, — 

“ I have just seen a woman crying in &amp;e street as if her 
heart was broken.” 

WhenCosette’s mother had gone, the man said to his wife,-— 
“ That money will meet my bill for one hundred and ten 



LES MISEBABLES - 65 

• " 

francs, which falls due to-mono^, and I was fifty francs short. 
It wduld have been protested, and I should have had a bailifE 
put in. You set a famous mouse-trap with your brats.” 

“Without suspecting it,” said t^e woman. 

This Thenardier, could he be believed, had been a soldier — 
sergeant, he said; he had probably gone through the cam- 
paign ’of 1815, and had even behaved rather bravely, as it 
seems. We shall see presently how the matter really stood. 
The sign of his inn was an allusion to one of his exploits, and 
he had painted it himself, for he could do a little of every- 
thing — badly. His wife was some twelve or fifteen years 
younger than he, and when her romanticaUy flowing locks 
began to grow grey, she was only a stout wicked woman who 
had been pampered with foolish romances. As such absurd- 
ities cannot be read with impunity, the result was that her 
eldest daughter was christened Eponine ; a.^ for the younger, 
the poor girl was all but named Gulnare, and owed it to a fort- 
unate diversion made by a romance of Ducray Dumenil’s, 
that she was only christened Azelma. 

It is not enough to be bad in order to prosper : and the 
pot-house was a failure. Thanks to the fifty-seven francs, Th6- 
nardicr had been able to avoid a protest, and honour his signa- 
ture ; but the next month they wanted money again, and his 
wife took to Paris and pledged Cosette’s outfit for sixty francs. 
So Boo^ ah this sum was spent, the Thenardiers grew accus- 
tomed to see in the little girl a child they had taken in through 
charity, and treated her accordingly. As she had no clothes, 
she was dressed in the left-oS chemises and petticoats of the 
little Th4nardiers, that is to say, in rags. She was fed on 
the leavings of everybody, little better than the dog, and a 
little worse than the cat. 

The mother, who had settled, as we shall see hereafter, at 
M. sur M., wrote® or, to speak more correctly, had letters 
written every month to inquire after her child. The Th6- 
nardiers invariably replied that Cosette was getting on fam- 
ously, v When the first six months had passed, the mother 
sent seven francs for the seventh month, and continued to 
send the money punctually month by month. The year was 
not ended before Thenardier said, “ A fine thing that ! what 
do^p she expect us to do with seven francs ! ” and he wrote to 
demand twelve. The mother, whom they persuaded that 

c 



M LES MISEBABLES 

I 

her child wae happy and hfealthy, submitted, and sent the 
twelve francs. ^ ^ , • 

Some natures cannot love on one side without hating on the 
other. Mother Th^nardier passionately loved her own two 
daughters, which made her detest the stranger. This woman, 
like many women of her class, had a certain amount of caresses 
and another of blows and insults to expend daily. -If she 
had not had Cosette, it is certain that her daugh^rs, though 
they were idolized, would have received the entire amount, 
but the strange child did^the service of diverting the blows on 
herself, while the daughters only received the caresses. Co- 
sette did not make a movement that did not bring down on her 
head a hailstorm of violent and unmerited chastisement. The 
poor weak child, unnecessarily punished, scolded, cuffed, and 
beaten, saw by her side two little creatures like herself who 
lived in radiant happiness. 

As Madame Thenardier was unkind to Cosette, Eponine 
and Azelma were the same; for children, at that age, are 
copies of their mother ; the form is smaller, that is all. A 
year passed, then another, and people said in the village, — 

“ Those Th^nardiers are worthy people. They are not well 
off, and yet they bring up a poor child left on their hands.” 

Cosette was supposed to be deserted by her mother ; Th6- 
nardier, however, having learnt in some obscure way that the 
child was probably illegitimate, and that the mother &lt;;guld not 
confess it, insisted on 15 francs a month, saying that the crea- 
ture was growing and eating, and threatening to send her 
back. “She must not play the fool with me,” he shouted, 
“ or I’ll let her brat, fall like a bomb-shell into her hiding- 
place. I must have an increase.^* The mother paid the 16 
francs. Year by year the child grew, and so did her wretch- 
edness : so long as Cosette was little, she was the scape-goat 
of the two other children ; so soon as she began to be de- 
veloped a little, that is to say, even before she was five years 
old, she became the servant of the house. At five years, the 
reader will say, that is improbable, but, alas I it is true. Social 
altering begins at any age. Have we not recently seen the 
trial of a certain DumoUard, an orphan, who turned bandit^ 
and who from the age of five, as the official documents tell us^ 
was alone in the world and “ worked for a living and stol^^ ” 
Cosette was made to go on messages, sweep the rooms. 



LES MISEBABLES f7 

the yard, the street, wash the dftshes, and even carry heavy 
bundles. The Thenardiers considered themselves the more 
justified in acting thus, because the mother, who was still at 
M. sur M., was beginning to pay badly, and was several months 
in arrear. 

If the mother had returned to Montfenneil at the end of 
three years, she would not have recognized her child. Cosette, 
so pretty and ruddy on her arrival in this house, was now 
thin and sickly. She had a timid look about her. Injustice 
had made her sulky, and wretchedness had made her ugly. 
Nothing was left her but her fine eyes, which were painful 
to look at, because, as they were so large, it seemed as if a 
greater amount of sadness was visible in them. It was a 
heart-rending sight to see this poor child, scarce six years of 
age, shivering in winter under her calico rags, and sweeping the 
street before daybreak, with an enormous broom in her 
small red hands and a tear in her large eyes. 

The country people called her “ the lark,” the lower classes, 
who are fond of metaphors, had given the name to the poor 
little creature, who was no larger than a bird, trembling, 
frightened, and starting, who was always the first awake in the 
house and the village, and ever in the street or the fields by 
daybreak. 

There wm this dfSerence, however, — this poor lark did not 
sing. ^ ’ 

What had become of the mother, who, according to the 
people of Montfenneil, appeared to have deserted her child ? 
After leaving her little Cosette with the Thenardiers, she had 
continued her journey and arrived at M; sur M. Fantine had 
been away from her provitce for ten years, and while she 
had been slowly descending from misery to misery, her native 
town had prospered. About two years before, one of those 
industrial facts wffich are the events of small towns had 
taken place. The details are important, and we think it 
useful to develop them, we might almost say, to understand 
them. 

From time immemorial M. sur M.had as a special trade the 
imitation of English jet and German black beads. This 
trade had hitherto only vegetated, owing to the dearness of 
thtfenaterial, which re-acted on the aitizan. At the moment 
when Fantine returned to M. sur M. an extraordinary trana- 



66 LES MISERABLES 

formation had taken place ifn the production of “ black arti- 
cles.” Toward the close of 1816, a man, a stranger, hsCd set- 
tled in the town, and had the idea of substituting in this 
trade gum lac for rosin, and in bracelets particularly, scraps 
of bent plate for welded plate. This slight change was a 
revolution, it prodigiously reduced the cost of the material, 
which, in the first place, allowed the wages to be raised, a benefit 
for the town ; secondly, improved the manufacture, an advan- 
tage for the consumer ; and, thirdly, allowed the goods to be 
sold cheap, while producing them the profit, an advantage for 
the manufacturer. 

In less than three years the inventor of the process had 
become rich, which is a good thing, and had made all rich 
about him, which is better. He was a stranger in the de- 
partment ; no one knew anything about his origin, and but 
little about his start. It was said that he had entered the 
town with but very little money, a few hundred francs at the 
most ; but with this small capital, placed at the service of an 
ingenious idea, and fertilized by regularity and thought, he 
made his own fortune and that of the town. On his arrival 
at M. Bur M. he had the dress, manners, and language of a 
working man. It appears that on the very December night 
when he obscurely entered M. sur M. with his knapsack on 
his back, and a knotted stick in his hand^a great fire broke 
out in the Town Hall. This man rushed into the nlidtt of the 
flames, and at tlie risk of his life saved two children who 
happened to belong to the captain of the gendarmes ; hence 
no one dreamed of asking for his passport. On this occasion 
his name was learned ; he called himself Father Madeleine. 
He was a man of about fifty, with a preoccupied air^ and he 
was good-hearted. That was all that could be said^of him. 

Thanks to the rapid progress of this trade which he had so 
admirably remodelled, M. sur M. had Become a place of 
considerable trade. Father Madeleine's profits were so great, 
that after the. second year, he was able to build a large fac- 
tory, in which were two spacious workshops, one for men, the 
other for women. Any one who was hungry need only to 
come, and was sure to find there emplo3mient and bread. 
Father Madeleine expected from the men good-will, from the 
women purity, and from all probity. He had dividedethe 
workshops in order to separate the sexes, and enable the 



LES MISERABLES 69 

women and girls to remain virtuous. This sternness was the 
more* justifiable because M. sur M. was a garrison town, and 
opportunities for corruption abounded. 

As we have said, in the midst of this activity, of which he 
was the cause, Father Madeleine made his fortune, but, sin- 
gularly enough in a plain man of business, this did not ap- 
pear to be his chief care ; he seemed to think a great deal of 
others, and but little of himself. In 1820, he was known to 
have a sum of 630,000 francs in Laiitte^s bank ; but before he 
put that amount on one side he had spent more than a million 
for the town and the poor. The hospital was badly endowed, 
and he added ten beds. M. sur M. is divided into an upper 
and a lower town ; the latter, in which he lived, had only one 
school, a poor tenement falling into ruins, and he built two, 
one for boys and one for girls. He paid the two teachers an 
amount the double of their poor official salary, and to some 
one who expressed surprise, he said, “ The two first function- 
aries of the State are the nurse and the schoolmaster.” He 
had established at his own charges a hospice, a thing at that 
time almost unknown in France, and a charitable fund for 
old and infirm workmen. As his factory was a centre, a new 
district, in which there was a large number of indigent fami- 
lies, rapidly sprang up around it, and he opened there a free 
Dispensary. 

In 1419, the report spread one morning through the town 
that,^n the recommendation of the Prefect, and in considera- 
tion of services rendered the town, Father Madeleine was 
about to be nominated by the King, Mayor of M. Those who 
had declared the new-comer an ambitious man, eagerly seized 
this opportunity to exclairf, “ Did we not say so ? ” All M. 
was in an uproar ; for the rumour was well founded. A few 
days after, the appointment appeared in the Moniteur^ and 
the next day Fat%r Madeleine declined the honour. In the 
same year, the new processes worked by him were shown at 
the Industrial Exhibition ; and on the report of the jury, the 
King made the inventor a Chevalier of the Legion of Honour. 
There was a fresh commotion in the little town ; WeU, it 
was the cross he wanted,” but Father Madeleine declined the 
cross. Decidedly the man was an enigma, but charitable 
souls got out of the difficulty by saying, “ Afto all he is a sort 
of adventurer.” 



70 


LES MISEBABLES 


In 1820, five years after &amp;is arrival at M., the services he 
had rendered the town were so brilliant, the will of the Vhole 
country was so unanimous, that the King again nominated 
him Mayor of the Town. He refused again, but the Prefect 
would not accept his refusal ; all the notables came to beg, 
the people supplicated him in the open streets, and the pres- 
sure was so great, that he eventually assented. It \^a3 no- 
ticed that what appeared specially to determine him was the 
almost angry remark of an old woman, who cried to him from 
her door : “ A good Mayor is useful ; a man should not recoil 
before the good he may be able to do.” This was the tliird 
phase of his ascent ; Father Madeleine had become Mon- 
sieur Madeleine, and Monsieur Madeleine became Monsieur le 
Maire. 

Father Madeleine remained aar simple as he had been on 
the first day : he had grey hair, a serious eye, the bronzed 
face of a working man, and the thoughtful face of a philoso- 
pher. He habitually wore a broad-brimmed hat, and a long 
coat of coarse cloth, buttoned up to the chin. He performed 
his duties as Mayor, but beyond that lived solitary ; ho spoke 
to few persons, liked to escape from compliments, smiled to 
save himself from laughing, and gave to save himself from 
smiling. The women said of him, ” What a fine bear 1 ” and 
his great pleasure was to walk about th^fields. He always 
took his meals with an open book before him, and had a 
well-selected library. Ho was fond of books, for they are cool 
and sure friends. In proportion as leisure came with fortune, 
he seemed to employ it in cultivating his mind : it was noticed 
that with each year he spent in M. his language became more 
polite, chosen, and gentle. * 

He was fond of taking a gun with him on his wdks, but 
rarely fired ; when ho did so by accident, he had an infallible 
aim, which was almost terrific. He never Silled an inoffensive 
animal or a small bird. Though he was no longer young, he 
was said to possess prodigious strength : he lent a hand to any 
one who needed it, raised a fallen horse, put his shoulder to a 
wheel stuck in the mud, or stopped a runaway bull by the 
horns. His pockets were always fuU of half-pence when 
he went out, and empty when he came home ; whenever he 
p^ed through a village, the ragged children ran mernly i^r 
hizOi and surrounded him like a swarm of gnats* It was 



LES MISEBABLES 71 

supposed that he must have formerly lived a rustic life, for he 
had Al sorts of useful secrets which he taught the peasants. 
He showed them how to destroy blight in wheat by sprinkling 
the granary and pouring into the cracks of the boards a solu- 
tion of common salt, and to get rid of weevils by hanging up 
everywhere, on the walls and roofs, flowering orviot. He had 
recipes* to extirpate from arable land, tares, and other parasitic 
plants which injure wheat, and would defend a rabbit hutch 
from rats by the mere smell of a little Guinea pig which he 
placed in it. 

He did a number of good actions, while as careful to hide 
them as if they were bad. He would quietly at night enter 
houses, and furtively ascend the stairs. A poor fellow, on 
returning to his garret, would find that his door had been 
opened, at times forced, during his absence ; the man would 
cry that a robber had been there, but when he entered, the 
first thing he saw was a gold coin left on the table. The robber 
who had been there was Father Madeleine. 

He was affable and sad. Some persons asserted that he 
was a mysterious character, and declared that no one ever 
entered his bed-room, which was a real anchorite's cell, fur- 
nished with winged hour-glasses, and embellished with cross 
bones and death's heads. This was so often repeated that 
some elegant and^iteful ladies of M. came to him one day, 
and saiif Monsieur le Maire, do show us your bed-room, for 
people say that it is a grotto.^' He smiled and led them 
straightway to the grotto they were terribly punished 
for their curiosity, as it was a bed-room merely containing 
mahogany furniture as ugly as all furniture of that sort, and 
hung with a paper at sixpence the piece. They could not 
notice wything but two double-branched candlesticks of an 
antiquated patten^ standing on the mantel-piece, and seeming 
to be silver, “ because they were Hall-marked,” — a remark 
full of the wit of small towns. People did not the less contmuo 
to repeat, however, that no one ever entered this bed-room, 
and that it was a hermitage, a hole, a tomb. They also whis- 
pered that he had immense sums lodged with Lafitte, and with 
this peculiarity that things were always at his immediate dis- 
posal, ” so that,” they added, ” M. Madeleine could go any 
mbming to Lafitte’s, sign a rmipt, and oairy off his two or 
three znillions of francs in ten minutes/^ In realit/i there 



n LES MISERABLES 

two or three millions " were reduced, as we have said, to six 
hundred and thirty or forty thousand francs. 

At the beginning of 1821, the papers announced the decease 
of M. Myriel, Bishop of D , “ surnamed Monseigneur Wel- 

come,^* who had died in the odour of sanctity at the age of 

eighty-two. The Bishop of D , to add here a detail oinitted 

by the papers, had been blind for several years, and was satis- 
fied to be blind as his sister was by his side. 

The announcement of his death was copied by the local 

paper of M , and on the next day Monsieur Madeleine 

appeared dressed in black, with crape on his hat. The mourn- 
ing was noticed in the town, and it was concluded that he was 
somehow connected with the Bishop. This added inches to 
M. Madeleine's stature, and suddenly gave him a certain con- 
sideration in the noble world of M. The microscopic Fau- 
bourg St. Germain of the town thought about raising the 
quarantine of M. Madeleine, the probable relation of a bishop, 
and M. Madeleine remarked the promotion he had obtained 
in the increased love of the old ladies, and the greater amount 
of smiles from the young. One evening a lady belonging to 
this little great world, curious by right of seniority, ventured 
to say, “ M. le Maire is doubtless a cousin of the late Bishop 
of D ? " 

He answered, “ No, Madame.” ’*^****** 

“ But,” the Dowager went on, ** you wear moiiflffag for 
him.” 

”'Jn my youth I was a footman in his family,” was the 
answer. 

Another thing noticed was, that when a young Savoyard 
passed through the town, looking*for chimneys to swqep, the 
Mayor sent for him, asked his name, and gave him money. 
The Savoyard boys told each other of this, and a great many 
passed through M. * 

By degrees and with time all the opposition died out. The 
respect felt for him was complete, unanimous, and cordial. 

Only one man in the town and bailiwick resisted this con- 
tagion, and whatever M. Madeleine might do, remained rebel- 
lious to it, as if a sort of incorruptible and imperturbable 
instinct kept him on his guard. It often happened when M. 
Madeleine passed along a street, calmly, kindly, and greeted 
by the blessings of all, that a tall man, dressed m an iron-grey 



73 


LES MISBRABLES 

great^coat, armed with a thick cane, and wearing a hat with 
turner-down brim, turned suddenly and looked after him till 
he disappeared ; folding his arms, shaking his head, and 
raising his upper lip with the lower as high as his nose, a sort 
of significant grimace, which may be translated, — Who is 
that man 1 1 am certain that I have seen him somewhere. 
At any rate, I am not his dupe.*' 

This person's name was Javert ; he belonged to the police, 

and performed at M the laborious but useful duties of an 

inspector. He had not seen Madeleine's beginning, for he was 
indebted for the post he occupied to the Secretary of Count 
Angl6, at that time Prefect of Police at Paris. When Javert 

arrived at M , the great manufacturer's fortune was made, 

and Father Madeleine had become Monsieur Madeleine. Some 
police officers have a peculiar face, which is complicated by an 
air of baseness, blended with an air of authority. Javert had 
this face, less the baseness. 

He was born in prison ; his mother was a fortune-teller, 
whose husband was at the galleys. When he grew up he 
thought that he was beyond the pale of society, and despaired 
of ever entering it. He noticed that society inexorably keeps 
at bay two classes of men, — those who attack it, and those who 
guard it ; he had only a choice between these two classes, and 
at the same tijB€^t within him a rigidness, regularity, and 
probit}i^ombined with an inexpressible hatred of the race of 
Bohemians to which he belonged. He entered the police, 
got on, and at the age of forty was an inspector. In his 
youth he was engaged in the Southern Bagnes. 

This man was made up of two very simple and relatively 
excellent feelings, — ^respect *for authority and hatred of re- 
bellion ; and in his eyes, robbery, murder, and every crime, 
were only forms oj rebellion. He enveloped in a species of 
blind faith everybody in the service of the State, from the 
Prime Minister down to the game-keeper. He covered with 
contempt, aversion, and disgust, every one who had once 
crossed the legal threshold of evil. 

His entire person expressed the man who spies and hides 
himself. His forehead could not be seen, for it was hidden 
by his hat ; his eyes could not be seen, because they were 
lost»undei his eye-brows ; his chin was plunged into his cravat, 
his hands were covered by his cuffs, and his cane was carried 



T4 


LES MISERABLES 

under his coat. But when the opportunity mived,^ there 
could be seen suddenly emerging from all this shadoW} as 
from an ambush, an angular, narrow forehead, a fatal glance, 
a menacing chin, enormous hands, and a monstrous rattan. 
Our readers will readily understand that Javert was the 
terror of all that class whom the yearly statistics of the 
minister of justice designate under the rubric — ^vagabonds. 
The name of Javert, if uttered, set them to flight ; the face 
of Javert, if seen, petrified them. 

Javert was like an eye ever fixed on M. Madeleine, an 
eye full of suspicion and conjectures. M. Madeleine noticed 
it in the end ; but he considered it a matter of insignificance. 
He did not even ask Javert his motive, he neither sought nor 
shunned him, and endured his annojdng glance without appear- 
ing to notice it. He treated Javert like every one else, easily 
and kindly. Javert was evidently somewhat disconcerted by 
M. Madeleine’s complete naturalness and calmness. One 
day, however, his strange manner seemed to produce an im- 
pression on M. Madeleine. The occasion was as follows. 

When M. Madeleine was passing one morning through an 
unpaved lane in the town, he heard a noise and saw a group at 
some distance, to which he walked up. An old man, known 
as Father Fauchelevent, had fallen u ndm* his cart, and his 
horse was lying on the ground. This hSfiH^elevent was one 
of the few enemies M. Madeleine still had at this tiiifi!^ When 
Madeleine came to these parts, Fauchelevent, a tolerably 
well-educated peasant, was doing badly in business ; and 
he saw the simple workman grow rich, while he, a master, 
was being ruined. This filled him with jealousy, and he had 
done all in his power, on every possible occasion, to injure 
Madeleine. Then bankruptcy came, and in his old days, having 
only a horse and cart left, and no family, he turned carter 
to earn a living. 

The horse had both legs broken, and could not get up^ while 
the old man was entangled between the wheels. The fall had 
been so unfortunate, that the whole weight of the cart was 

E ressing on his chest, and it was heavily loaded. Fauohe- 
&gt;vent uttered lamentable groans, and attempts had been 
made, though in vain, to draw him out ; and any irregular 
effort, any clumsy help or shock, might kill him. It* was 
Impossible to extricate him except by raising the cart from 



LES MISEBABLES ip 

below, and Javert, who came up &amp;t the moment of the acci- 
dent, had sent to fetch a jack. When M. Madeleine came 
up, the mob made way respectfully. 

** Help I ” old Fauchelevent cried, “ is there no good soul 
who will save an old man ? " 

M. Madeleine turned to the spectators. 

“ Have you a jack ? ” 

“ They have gone to fetch one,” a peasant answered. 

** How soon will it be here ! ” 

** W'ell, the nearest is at Hatchet the blacksmith's, but it 
cannot be brought here under a good quarter of an hour.” 

** A quarter of an hour I ” Madeleine exclaimed. 

It had rained on the previous night, the ground was soft, 
the cart sunk deeper into it every moment, and more and 
more pressed the old man’s chest. It was evident that his 
ribs would be broken within five minutes. 

“ It is impossible to wait a quarter of an hour,” said M« 
Madeleine to the peasants who were looking on. Listen to 
me ; there is still room enough for a man to slip under the 
cart and raise it with his back. It will only take half a 
minute, and the poor man can be drawn out. Is there any 
one here who has strong loins ! there are ten louis to be 
earned.” 

His hearers logjj^down, and one of them muttered, ” A 
man wo^l^iilEt^eto be deucedly strong, and, besides, he would 
run a risk of being smashed.” 

” Come,” Madeleine began again, “ twenty louis.** 

The same silence. 

” It is not the good-will they are deficient in,” said Javwt, 
who had just come up. ” Itf is the strength. A man would 
have to be tremendously strong to lift a cart like that with 
his back.” 

Then, looking fix^ly at M. Madeleine, he contmued, la3ring 
a marked stress on every word he uttered, — 

” Monsieur Madeleine, I never knew but one man capable of 
doing what you ask.” 

Madeleine started, but Javert continued carelessly, though 
without taking his eyes off Madeleine, — 

” He was a galley-slave at the Toulon Bagne.** 

Madeleine turned pale ; all this while the cart was slowly 
settling down, and Father Fauchelevent was screaming, — 



ip LES MISEBABLES 

“ I am choking : it is brekking my ribs : a jack ! something 
—oh ! ” 

Madeleine looked around him. 

“ Is there no one here willing to earn twenty louis and save 
this poor old man's life ? " 

No one stirred, and Javert repeated, — 

“ I never knew but one man capable of acting as' a jack, 
and it was that convict.” 

” Oh, it is crushing me ! ” the old man yelled. 

Madeleine raised his head, met Javert's falcon eye still 
fixed on him, gazed at the peasants, and sighed sorrowfully. 
Then, without saying a word, he fell on his knees, and, ere the 
crowd had time to utter a cry, was under the cart. There was 
a frightful moment of expectation and silence. Madeleine, 
almost lying flat under the tre‘mendous weight, twice tried in 
vain to bring his elbows up to his knees. The peasants 
shouted, ” Father Madeleine, come out ! ” And old Fauciie- 
levent himself said, ” Monsieur Madeleine, go away ! I must 
die, so leave me ; you will be killed too.” 

Madeleine made no answ'er; the spectators gasped, the 
wheels had sunk deeper, and it was now almost impossible for 
him to get out from under the cart. All at once the enormous 
mass shook, the cart slowly rose, and the wheels half emerged 
from the rut. A stifled voice could be saying, “ Make 
haste, help ! ” It was Madeleine, who had maS^Gr^iJeft effort. 
They rushed forward, for t he devotion of one man had restored 
strength and courage to all. The cart was lifted by twenty 
arms, and old Fauchelcvent was saved. Madeleine rose : 
he was livid, although dripping with perspiration : his clothes 
were torn and covered with mild. The old man kissed his 
knees, and called him his saviour, while Madeleine* had on 
his face a strange expression of celestial suffering, end turned 
his placid eye on Javert, who was still Idbking at him. 

Fauclielevent had put out his knee-cap in his fall, and 
Father Madeleine had him carried to an infirmary he had 
established for his workmen in his factory, and which was 
managed by two sisters of charity. The next morning the 
old man found a thousand franc note by his bed-side, with a 
line in M. Madeleine's handwriting, “ Payment for your cart 
and horse, which I have bought." The cart was smashed and 
the horse dead. Fauchelevent recovered, but ^ leg remained 



LES MISERABLES 77 

I 

fltiil, find hence M. Madeleine, by the recommendation of the 
sisters and his cure, procured him a situation as gardener at a 
convent in the St. Antoine quarter of Paris. 

Some time after, M. Madeleine was appointed Mayor ; the 
first time Javert saw him wearing the scarf which gave him 
all authority in the town, he felt that sort of excitement 
a dog would feel that scented a wolf in its master's clothes. 
From this moment he avoided him as much as he could, and 
when duty imperiously compelled him, and he could not do 
otherwise than appear before the Mayor, he addressed him 
with profound respect. 


CHAPTER IV 

When Fantine returned to M., no one remembered her, but 
luckily the door of M. Madeleine's factory was like a friendly 
face ; she presented herself at it, and was admitted to the 
female shop. As the trade was quite new to Fantine, she was 
awkward at it and earned but small wages ; but that was 
enough, for she was earning her livelihood. When Fantine 
saw that she could live by it, she had a moment of joy. A 
taste for work re^j^came back to her : she bought a looking- 
glass, delig]j|t«d^n seeing in it her youth, her fine hair and 
fine teetn ; forgot many things, only thouglit of Cosette, and 
her possible future, and was almost happy. She hired a small 
room and furnished it, on credit, to be paid out of her future 
earnings, — ^this was a relic of her irregular habits. 

Not being able to say th%t she was married, she was very 
careful .not to drop a word about her child. At the outset 
she punctually paid the Th6nardiers, and as she could only 
sign her name, sh% was compelled to write to them through 
the agency of a public writer. It was noticed that she wrote 
frequently. It was beginning to be whispered in the shop that 
Fantine “ wrote letters,” and was ” carrying on.” 

Fantine was observed. It was a fact that she wrote, at 
least twice a month, and always to the same address, and paid 
the postage. They managed to obtain the address ; ” Mon- 
sieur Th^nardier, l^blican, Montfermeil.” The public writer, 
who could not ^ his stomach with wine without emptying 
™ pocket of secrets, was made to talk at the wine-shop ; and, 



78 LES MISERABLES 

in short, it was known that Fantine had a chDd. A, gossip 
undertook a journey to Montfernieil, spoke to the Th6nardiers, 
and on her return said, “ I do not begrudge my five-and-thirty 
francs, for I have seen the child/' 

The gossip who did this was a Gorgon of the name of Madame 
Victurnien, guardian of everybody's virtue. She w^s fifty- 
six years of age, and covered the mask of ugliness with the 
mask of old age. Astounding to say, this old woman had 
once been young ; in her youth, in '93, she had married a 
monk, who escaped from the cloisters in a red cap, and passed 
over from the Bernardines to the Jacobins. She was dry, 
crabbed, sharp, thorny, and almost venomous, while remem- 
bering the monk whose widow she was, and who had consider- 
ably tamed her. At the Restoration she had turned bigot, 
and so energetically, that the priests forgave her her monk. 
She had a small estate which she left with considerable pallour 
to a religious community, and she was very welcome at the 
Episcopal Palace of Arras. This Madame Victurnien, then, 
went to Montfcrmeil, and when she returned, said, “ 1 have 
seen the child." 

All this took time, and Fantine had been more than a year 
at the factory, when one morning the forewoman handed her 
50 francs in the Mayor's name, and toldjier that she was no 
longer engaged, and had better leave thet^tNii^l^^^ Mayor 
said. It was in this very month that the Th6narcBBR, after 
asking for 12 francs instead of 7, raised a claim for 15 instead 
of 12. Fantine was startled ; she could not leave the town, 
for she owed her rent and for her furniture, and 50 francs 
would not pay those debts. Sh^ stammered a few words of 
entreaty, but the forewoman intimated to her that she must 
leave the shop at once ; moreover, Fantine was but an 
indifferent workwoman. Crushed by sha^nc more than dis- 
grace, she left the factory, and returned to her room : her 
fault then was now known to all ! She did not feel the 
strength in her to say a word ; she was advised to see the 
umyor, but did not dare to do so. The Mayor gave her 60 
franca because he was kind, and discharged her because he 
bowed her head to the sentence. 

^ M. Madeleine, however, knew nothing of all this. He made 
It a rule hardly ever to enter the female work-room; 
he nad placed at Its head an old maid, whom the our4 had 



LES MISEBABLES 79 

I 

given him, and he had entire confidence in her. M. Madeleine 
trusted to her in everything, for the best men are often 
forced to delegate their authority, and it was with the con- 
viction she was acting rightly that the forewoman tried, con- 
demned, and executed Fantine. As for the 50 francs, she 
had given them out of a sum M. Madeleine had given her 
for alins and helping the workwomen, and which she did not 
account for. 

Fantine tried to get a servant’s place in the town, and 
went from house to house, but no one would have anything 
to do with her. She could not leave the town, for the broker 
to whom she was in debt for her furniture said to her, “ If 

J rou go away, 1 will have you arrested as a thief.” The 
andlord to whom she owed her rent, said to her, You are 
young and pretty, you can pay.” She divided the 50 francs 
between the landlord and the broker, gave back to the latter 
three-fourths of the goods, only retaining what was absolutely 
necessary, and found herself without work, without a trade, 
with only a bed, and still owing about 100 francs. She set 
to worlc making coarse shirts for the troops, and earned at 
this sixpence a day, her daughter costing her fourpence. It 
was at this moment she began to fall in arrears with the Th6nar- 
diers. An old woman, however, who lit her candle for her 
wiicn shecajji^iifil'at nights, taught her the way to live 
in wretcJil^meM. Behind living on little, there is living on 
nothing : these are two chambers, — the first is obscure, the 
second quite dark. 

In this distress, it would have been a strange happiness to 
have had her daughter with her, and she thought of sending 
for her.^ But, what 1 make* her share her denudation ? and 
then she owed money to the Thenardiers ! how was she to pay 
it and the travelling expenses I 
At the beginning Fantine had been so ashamed that she 
did not dare go out. When she was in the streets, she per- 
ceived that people turned round to look at her and pointed 
to her. Oh I how glad she would have been to be back in 
Paris. She must grow accustomed to disrespect, as she had 
done to poverty. Gradually she made up her mind, and after 
two or three months shook o£E her shame, and went as if no- 
thing had occurred. “It is no matter to me,” she said. She 
came and went, with head erect and with a bitter smile, and 



LBS MISEBABLES 


80 . 

felt that she was growing impudent. Madame Victurnien 
sometimes saw her pass from her window ; she noticed the 
distress of the creature whom she had made know her place/ 
and congratulated herself. 

Fantine had been discharged toward the end of winter ; 
the next summer passed away, and winter returned. Winter 
changes into stone the water of heaven and the heart of man. 
Her creditors pressed her, for Fantine was earning too little, 
and her debts had increased. The Thenardiers, being irre- 
gularly paid, constantly wrote her letters, whose contents 
afflicted her, and postage ruined her. One day they wrote 
her that little Cosette was quite naked, that she wanted a 
flannel shirt, and that the mother must send at least ten 
francs for the purpose. She crumpled the letter in her hands 
all day, and at nightfall went to a barber's at the corner of 
the street, and removed her comb. Her splendid light hair 
fell down to her hips. 

‘‘ What fine hair ! ” the barber exclaimed. 

** What will you give me for it i " she asked. 

“ Ten francs." 

“ Cut it off." 

She bought a skirt and sent it to the Thenardiers ; it made 
them furious, for they wanted the monej^ They gave it to 
Eponine, and the poor lark continued OTSi^ver. Fantine 
thought, " My child is no longer cold, for I havearJSwd'her in 
my hair." She w^ore small round caps which hid her shorn 
head, and she still looked pretty in them. 

A dark change took place in Fantine's heart. When she 
found that she could no longer dress her hair, she began to 
hate all around her. She had lon^ shared the universal vener- 
ation for Father Madeleine : but, through the constant itera- 
tion that he had discharged her and was the cause of her mis- 
fortune, she grew to hate him too, and worse than the rest. 
When she passed the factory she pretended to laugh and 
si^. ^ old workwoman who once saw her doing so, said. 

That s a girl who will come to a bad end." She took a lover, 
the first who offered, a man she did not love, through bravado 
and with rage in her heart. He was a scoundrel, a sort of 
mendicant musician, an idle scamp, who beat her, and left 
her, M she had chosen him, in disgust. She adored her child. 
The lower she sank, the darker the gloom became around her. 



LES MISSRABLES 81 

f 

the more did this sweet little angel gleam in her soul. She 
said*, When I am rich, I shall have my Cosette with me 
and she laughed. She did not get rid of her cough, and she 
felt a cold perspiration in her back. 

One day she received from the ThSnardiers a letter to the 
following effect : — “ Cosette is ill with miliary fever, as they 
call ft, which is very prevalent. She must have expensive 
drugs, and that ruins us, and we cannot pay for them any 
longer. If you do not send us forty francs within a week, the 
little one ’v^l be dead." She burst into a loud laugh, and 
went out' into the street, still laughing and singing. Some 
one who met her said, “ What has made you so merry ? " 
and she answered, “ It is a piece of stupidity some country folk 
have written ; they want forty francs of me — ^the asses I " 

As she passed across the market-place she saw a crowd 
surrounding a vehicle of a strange shape, on the box of which 
man dressed in red was haranguing. He was a dentist 
going his rounds, who offered the public complete sets of 
teeth, opiates, powders, and elixirs. Fantine joined the crowd, 
and began laughing like the rest at this harangue. The ex- 
tractor of teeth saw the pretty girl laughing, and suddenly 
exclaimed, — 

** You have fine teeth, my laughing beauty. If you like 
sell mevjjipii^bwo top front teeth, I will give you a Napoleon 
picee^roThem." 

** What a horrible idea I " Fantine exclaimed. 


I 


** Two Napoleons I " an old toothless woman by her side 
grumbled, “ there's a lucky girl.” 

Fantine ran away and stopped her ears, not to hear the hoarse 
voice of the man, who shouted , — ** Think it over, my dear : 
two Napoleons may be useful. If your heart says Yes, come 
to-night to the Ti^ac d* Argent, where you will find me.” 

Fantine, when she reached home, was furious, and told 


her good neighbour Marguerite what had happened. ” Can 
you understand it f is he not an abominable man t Pull out 


my two front teeth ! why, I should look horrible ; I would 
sooner throw myself head first out of a fifth-floor window on 
to the pavement.” 

” And what did he offer you f ” Marguerite asked. 

. “ Two Napoleons." 

** That makes forty francs.** . 



82 LES MISERABLES 

I 

She became thoughtful and sat down to her work. At the 
end of a quarter of an hour, she left the room and read Thedar- 
dier's letter again on the staircase. When she returned, she 
said to Marguerite : 

“ Do you know what a miliary fever is ? Does it require 
much medicine ? ” 

“ Oh, an awful lot.” 

“ Does it attack children ^ ” 

“ More than anybody.” 

Do they die of it 1 ” 

“ Plenty,^' said Marguerite. 

Fantine w^ent out and read the letter once again on the 
staircase. At night she went out, and could be seen proceed- 
ing in the direction of the Rue dQ Paris. The next morning 
when Marguerite entered Fantine’s room before day-break, 
for they worked together, and made one candle do for them 
both, she found her sitting on her bed, pale and chill. Her 
cap had fallen on her knees, and the can^e had been burning 
all night, and was nearly consumed. 

Horrified by this extravagance, she looked at Fantine, who 
turned her close-shaven head towards her, and seemed to 
have grown ten years older since the previous day. 

“ Gracious Heaven ! ” said Marguerite, “ what is the matter 
with you, Fantine ? " 

“ Nothing,” the girl answered, " I am all right^Hljr &lt;2hild 
will not die of that frightful disease for want of assistance, and 
1 am satisfied.” 

As she said this, she pointed to two Napoleons that glis- 
tened on the table. 

At the same time she smiled, the ^candle lit up her face, and 
it was a fearful smile. A reddish saliva stained the corner of 
her lips, and she had a black hole in her mouth. She sent 
the forty francs to Montfermeil. It had only been a trick of 
the Thenardiers to get money, for Gosette was not ill. 

Fantine threw her looking-glass out of the window ; she 
had long before left her cell on the second floor, for a garret 
under the roof. She had no bed left ; she had only a rag she 
called a blanket, a mattress on the ground, and a bottomless 
chair ; a little rose-tree she had had withered away, forgotten 
in a comer. ^ In another comer she had a pail to hold water, 
which froze in winter, and in which the different levels of the 



83 


LES MIS^BABLES 


waller remained marked for a long time by rings of ice. She 
had lost her shame, and now lost her coquetry ; the last sign 
was, that she went out with dirty caps. Either through 
want of time or carelessness, she no longer mended her linen, 
and as the heels of her stockings wore out, she tucked them into 
her jshoes. She mended her worn-out gown with rags of 
calico, which tore away at the slightest movement. The 
people to whom she owed money made “ scenes," and allowed 
her no rest ; she met them in the street, she met them again 
on her stairs. Her eyes were very bright, and she felt a settled 

S ain at the top of her left shoulder-blade, while she coughed 
requently. She deeply hated Father Madeleine, and sewed 
for seventeen hours a day; but a speculator hired all the 
female prisoners, and reduced the prices of the free workmen 
to nine sous a day. Her creditors were more pitiless than 
ever, and the broker, who had got back nearly all her furniture, 
incessantly said to her, “ Wlien are you going to pay me, you 
cheat 7 " She felt herself tracked, and something of the wild 
beast was aroused in her. About the same time Th6nardier 
wrote to her, that he had decidedly waited too patiently, and 
that unless he received one hundr^ francs at once, he would 
turn poor Oosette, who had scarce recovered, out of doors, into 
the cold, and she^ust do what she could or rot. One hun- 
dred frppiil^Fantine thought, “ but where is the trade in 
which Fean earn one hundr^ sous a day 7 WeU 1 I wiQ sell 
all that is left ! ’’ 


And the unfortunate girl went on the streets. 

Eight or ten months after the events described in the 
previous pages, toward the beginning of January, 1823, and 
on a night when snow had fallen, a dandy who wore a Morillo, . 
and was warmly wrapped up in one of the large Spanish 
cloaks which at that time completed the fashionable costume 
in cold weather, was amusing himself by annoying a creature 
who was prowling about in a low-necked ball dress, and with 
flowers in her hair, before the window of the officers^ caf6. 
This dandy was smoking, as that was a decided mark of fashion. 
Each time this woman passed him, he made some remark to 
her, which he fancied witty and amusing, as : “ How ugly you 
are ! — You have no teeth, etc., etc." This gendeman^a name 
was Monsieur Bamatabois. The woman, a sad-dressed phan- 
tom walking backwards and forwards in the snow, made him 



84 LES MI^-ERABLES 


no answer, did not even look at him, but still continued siles?itly 
and with a gloomy regularity her walk, which every few minutes 
brought her under his sarcasms. The slight effect produced 
doubtless annoyed the idler, for taking advantage of her 
back being turned, he crept up behind her, stooped to pick 
up a handful of snow, and suddenly plunged it between her 
bare shoulders. The girl uttered a yell, turned, leapt like 
a panther on the man, and dug her nails into his face with 
the most frightful language that could fall from a guard-room 
into the gutter. These insulta, vomited by a voice rendered 
hoarse by brandy, hideously issued from a mouth in which the 
two front teeth were really missing. It was Fantine. 

At the noise, the officers left the cafe in a throng, the passers- 
by stopped, and a laughing, yelling, applauding circle was 
made round these two beings, in whom it was difficult to 
recognize a man and a woman, — the man struggling, his 
hat on the ground, the woman striking with feet and fists^ 
bare-headed, yelling, without teeth or hair, livid with passion, 
and horrible. All at once a tall man quickly broke through 
the crowd, seized the woman's satin dress, which was covered 
with mud, and said, “ Follow me." The woman raised her 
hand, and her passionate voice suddenly died out. Her eyes 
were glassy, she grew pale instead of beingjivid, and trembled 
with fear — she had recognized Javert. The (ISlfijMrDfitcd by 
this incident to make his escape. 

Javert broke through the circle and began walking with 
long strides toward the police office, which is at the other end 
ou n fragging the wretched girl after him. 

one allowed him to do so mechanically, and neither he nor 
she said a word. On reaching the police office, which, was a 
low room, heated by a stove, and guarded by a sentry, and 
Having a barred glass door opening on the street, Javert 
walked m with Fantine, and shut the door after him, to the 
great disappointment of the curious, who stood on tip-toe, 
and stretched out their necks in front of the dirty window, 
trymg to see. 


On entering, Fantine crouched down motionless in a cor- 
ner like a fnghtened dog. The sergeant on duty brought in 
a candle. Jayertsatdown at a table, tookasheet of stamped 
paper from his ^ket, and began writing. Women of this 
class ate by the French laws left entirely at the discretion of 



85 



the police. A prostitute had assaulted a citizen, and he, 
Javert, had witnessed it. He wrote on silently. When he 


had finished, he affixed his signature, folded up the paper, and 
said to the sergeant as he handed it to him : “ Take these 


men, and lead this girl to prison." Then he turned to Fan- 
tine, “ You will have six months for it." 


The wretched girl started. 

" Six months, six months* imprisonment ! *’ she cried ; 
" six months ! and only earn seven sous a day ! Why, w'hat 
will become of Cosette, my child, my child ! Why, I owe 
more than 100 francs to Thenardier M. Inspector, do you 
know that ? " 


She dragged herself across the floor, dirtied by the muddy 
boots of all these men, without rising, with clasped hands, and 
taking long strides witli her knees. 

“ Monsieur Javert," she said, “ I ask for mercy. I assure 
you that I was not in the wrong ; if you had seen the begin- 
ning, you would say so. That gentleman, who was a stranger 
to me, put snow down my back. It sent me wild, for you 
must know that I am not very well, and besides he had been 
abusing me. I did nothing, and said to myself, ‘ This gentle- 
man is amusing himself.' 1 was civil to him, and said no- 
thing, and it was at this moment he put the snow down my 
back. My go p d If. Javert, is there no one who saw it to tell 
you the truth ? It was wTong to destroy the gen- 

tlemi^^ hat, but why has he gone away ? I would ask his 
pardon. Oh ! I would willingly do so. Let me ofif this time. 
M. Javert, perhaps you do not know that in prison you can 
only earn seven sous a day, and just fancy I I have one hun- 
dred francs to pay, or my^hild will be turned into the street. 
Oh ! I cannot have her with me, for my mode of life is so 
bad ! Oh my Cosette, oh my little angel, what ever will be- 
come of you, pcfbr darling ! Take pity on me, M. Javert.” 

” Well,” said Javert, ” I have listened to you. Have you 
said all ? Be oil now, you have six months.” 

Javert turned his back and the soldiers seized her arm. 


Some minutes previously a man had entered unnoticed, he 
had closed the door, leant against it, and heard Fantine's 
desperate entreaties.' At the moment when the soldiers laid 
hold of the unhappy girl, who would not rise, he emerged 
from the gloom, and said, — 



86 LES MlaBBABLES 

** Wait a minute, if you please/* 

Javert raised his eyes, and recognized M. Madeleine ^ he 
took ofi his hat, and bowed with a sort of vexed awkwardness 
I beg your pardon, M. le Maire — ** 

The words M. le Maire ** produced a strange effect on 
Fantine ; she sprang up like a spectre emerging from the 
ground, thrust back the soldiers, walked straight up M. 
Madeleine before she could be prevented, and, looking at him 
wildly, she exclaimed, — 

“ So you are the Mayor ? ** 

Then she burst into a laugh, and spat in his face. M. 
Madeleine wiped his face, and said, — 

‘‘ Inspector Javert, set this woman at liberty.** 

Javert felt for a moment as if he were going mad. To 
see a girl of the town spit in the Mayor’s face was so mon- 
strous a thing that he would have regarded it as sacrilege 
even to believe it possible. But when he saw thk Mayor 
calmly wipe his face, and say, “ Set this woman at liberty,'* 
he had a bedazzlement of stupor, so to speak ; thought and 
language failed him equally. He remained dumb. His sen- 
tence had produced an equally strange cilect on Fantine ; 
she raised her bare arm, and clung to the chimney-key of the 
stove like a tottering person. She looked around, and began 
saying in a low voice, as if speaking to flfersQjh^ 

“ At liberty ! I am to be let go ! I shall not prison 

for six months ! Who said that ! It cannot be that mon- 
ster of a Mayor. Was it you, my kind M. Javert ? Well, 
I will tell you all about it, and you will let me go. That 
old villain of a Mayor is .the cause of it all. Just imagine, M. 
Javert, he discharged me on account^f a parcel of sluts gossin* 
ing in the shop. After that I did not earn enough, aAd 
this misfortune came. In the first place, there is an improve- 
ment which the police gentry ought to mak%, and that is to 
in prison injuring poor people. I will explain 
tM to you ; you earn twelve sous for making a shirt, but it 
falls to seven, and then you can no longer live, and are obliged 
to do what you can. As I had my little Cosette, I was 
forced to become a bad woman. My present offence is that 
I trampled on the gentleman*s hat before the officers* catt, 
but he had ruined my dress with snow ; and our sort have 
only one silk dress for night. Indeed, M. Javert, I never 



87 


LEB MIS£|tABLES 

did any harm purposely, and I see everywhere much worse 
women than myself who are much more fortunate. Oh, Mon- 
sieur Javert, you said that I was to bo set at liberty, did you 
not ! Make inquiries, speak to my landlord ; I pay my rent 
now, and you will hear that I am honest. Oh, good gracious ! 
I ask your pardon, but I have touched the key of the stove 
without noticing it, and made a smoke.'* 

M. Madeleine listened to her with deep attention : while 
she was talking, he took out his purse, but as he found it 
empty on opening it, he returned it to his pocket. Ho now 
said to Fantine, — 

How much did you say that you owed ? " 

Fantine, who was looking at Javert, turned round to him ,— 
** Am I speaking to you ? " 

Then she said to the soldiers, — 

** Tell me, men, did you see how I spat in his face ? Ah, 
you old villain of a Mayor, you have come here to frighten 
me, but I am not afraid of you ; I am only afraid of M. Javert, 
my kind Monsieur Javert.” 

While saying this, she turned again to the Inspector , — ** I 
can understand that you are a just man, M. Javert ; in fact, 
it is quite simple ; a man who played at putting snow down 
a woman^s back, ^ade the officers laugh ; they must have 
some amusepamt, and we girls are sent into the world for 
them toUfaKe fun of. And then you came up : you are com- 
pelled to restore order, you remove the woman who was in 
the wrong, but, on reflection, as you are kind-hearted, you 
order me to be set at liberty, for the sake of my little girl, 
for six months’ imprisonment would jprevent my supporting 
her. ph, I will not comelhere again, M. Javert; they can 
do what they like to me in future, and I will not stir. Still 
I cried out to-nigjjt, because it hurt me ; 1 did not at all ex- 
pect that gentleman's snow ; and then besides, as I told you, 
I am not very well, — I cough, I have a ball in my stomach 
which bums, and the doctor says, * Take care of yourself.' 
Here, feel, give me your hand ; do not be frightened.” 

She no longer cried, her voice was caressing ; she laid 
Javert's large coarse hand on her white, delicate throat, and 
looked up at him smilingly. All at once she hurriedly re- 
paired the disorder in her clothes, let the folds of her dress 
^9 which had been almost dragged up to her knee, and walked 



88 LES MljsEBABLES 

toward the door, saying to the soldiers with a friendly nod,— 

“ My lads, M. Javert says I may go, so I will be ofif/* 

She laid her hand on the hasp ; one step further, and she 
would be in the street. Up to this moment Javert had stood 
motionless, with his eyes fixed on the pound, appearing in the 
centre of this scene like a statue waiting to be put if® 

proper place. The sound of the hasp aroused him : he raised 
his head with an expression of sovereign authority — an expres- 
sion the more frightful, the lower the man in power stands. 

“ Sergeant," he shouted, “ do you not see that the wench 
is bolting ? Who told you to let her go ? " 

“ I did," said Madeleine. 

Fantine, at the sound of Javert's voice, trembled, and let 
go the hasp. At Madeleine’s voiee she turned, and from this 
moment, without uttering a word, without even daring to 
breathe freely, her eye wandered from Madeleine to Javert 
and from Javert to Madeleine, according as each spoke. 

** Monsieur le Maire, that cannot be. This creature has 
insulted a gentleman." 

“ Inspector Javert," M. Madeleine replied with a con- 
ciliating and calm accent, “ listen to me. You are an honest 
man, and I shall have no difliculty in coming to an explana- 
tion with you. The truth is as follows I w'as crossing the 
market-place at the time you were leading thii^iri away, a 
crowd was still assembled, I inquired, and know all^^the man 
was in the wrong, and, in common justice, ought to have been 
arrested instead of her." 

Javert objected, — 

" The wretched creature has just insulted M. le Maire.'^ 

“ That concerns myself," M. Madeleine said ; my insult 
b, perhaps, my own, and I can do what I like with it” 

“ I ask your pardon, sir ; the insult does not belong to you 
but to the Judicial Court." 

" Inspector Javert," Madeleine replied, “ conscience is the 
highest of all courts. I have* heard the woman, and know 
what I am doing." 

** And I, Monsieur le Maire, do not know what I am seeing.'^ 

“ In that case, be content with obeying." 

" I obey my duty ; my duty orders that this woman should 
go to prison for six months." 

M. Madeleine answered gentiy,— 



LES MISEB^LES 89 

" Listen to this carefully ; she will not go for a single day.” 

On^hearing these decided words, Javert ventured to look 
§xedly at the Mayor, and said to him, though still with a re- 
spectful accent — 

” I bitterly regret being compelled to resist you. Monsieur 
le Maire, it is the first time in my life, but you will deign to 
let me observe that I am within the limits of my authority. 
This girl attacked M. Bamatabois, who is an elector and owner 
of that fine three-storeyed house, built of hewn stone, which 
forms the corner of the Esplanade. This is a matter of the 
street police which concerns me, and I intend to punish the 
woman Fantine.” 

M. Madeleine upon this folded his arms, and said in a stem 
voice, which no one in the town had ever heard before, — 

“ The affair to which you allude belongs to the Borough 
police ; and by the terms of articles nine, eleven, fifteen, and 
sixty-six of the Criminal Code, I try it. I order that this 
woman is to be set at liberty.” 

Javert tried a final effort. 

“ But, Monsieur le Maire — ” 

“ I call your attention to article eighty-one of the law of 
Dec. 13th, 1799, upon arbitrary detention,” 

Permit me, sir— ” 

“ Not a woTd*^ ” 

" Still-^**^^ 

** Leave the room ! ” said M. Madeleine. 

Javert bowed down to the ground to the Mayor, and went 
out. Fantine stood up against the door, and watched him 
pass by her in stupor. She had seen two men, struggling in 
her pregence, who held in Iheir hands her liberty, her life, 
her soul, her child. One spoke like a demon, the other like 
her good angel. The angel had vanquished the demon, and 
the thing which made her shudder from head to foot was that 
this angd, this liberator, was the very man whom she abhorred, 
the Mayor whom she had so long regarded as the cause of all 
her woes ; and at the very moment when she had insulted him 
in such a hideous way, he saved her. She listened wildly, she 
looked on with terror, and at every word that M. Madeleine 
said, she felt the darlmess of hatred fade away in her heart, 
and something glowing and ineffable spring up in its place, 
which was composed of joy, confidence, and love. When 



90 LES ]|ISEBABLES 

Javert had left the room, M. Madeleine turned to her, and 
said in a low voice, like a serious man who is making an effort 
to restrain his tears, — 

“ I have heard your story. I knew nothing about what 
you have said, but I believe, I feel, that it is true. I was 
even ignorant that you had left the factory, but why did you 
not apply to me ? This is what I will do for you ; I will pay 
your debts and send for your child, or you can go to it. You 
can live here, in Paris, or wherever you please, and I will pro- 
vide for your child and yourself. I will give you all the 
money you require, and you will become respectable again in 
becoming happy, and I will say more than that : if all be as 
you say, and I do not doubt it, you have never ceased to be 
virtuous and holy in the sight of God ! Poor woman ! ” 

This was more than poor Fantinc could endure. To have 
her Cosette ! to leave this infamous life ! to live free, rich, 
happy, and respectable with Cosette ! to see all these realities 
of Paradise suddenly burst into flower, in the midst of her 
wretchedness I She looked as if stunned at the person who 
was speaking, and could only sob two or three times, “ Oh, 
oh, oh ! '' Her legs gave way, she fell on her knees before M, 
Madeleine, and before he could prevent it, he felt her seize 
his hand and press her lips to it. Thjn she fainted. 

M. Madeleine had Fantine conveyed to infirmary he 
had established in his own house, and intrustecTher to the 
sisters, who put her to bed. A violent fever had broken out ; 
she spent a part of the night in raving and talking aloud, 
but at length fell asleep. On the morrow, at about mid-day, 
Fantine woke, and hearing a breathing close to her bed, she 
drew the curtain aside, and noticed M. Madeleine gjkzing at 
something above her head. His glance was full of pity and 
agony, and supplicated : she followed its^direction, and saw 
that it was fixed on a crucifix nailed to tne wall. M. Made- 
leine was now transfigured in Fantine's eyes, and seemed to 
her surrounded by light. He was absorbed in a species of 
prayer, and she looked at him for some time without daring 
to interrupt him, but at length said, timidly,— 

What are you doing there I ** 

M. Madeleine had been standing at this spot for an hour, 
waiting till Fantine should wake. He took her hand, felt 
her pulse, and answered, ** How are you I 



•• Very comfortable, I have dept, and fancy I am better. 
It will be nothing.” 

He continued, answering the question she had asked him 
first, and as if he had only just heard it, — 

” I was praying to the Martyr up there ; ” and he mentally 
added, ** for the Martyr down here.” 

M. Madeleine had spent the night and morning in making 
inquiries, and had learnt everything ; he knew all the poignant 
details of Fantine's history. He continued, — 

” You have suffered deeply, poor mother. Oh ! do not 
complain, for you have at present the dowry of the elect : it 
is in this way that human things become angels. The hell 
you have now lett is thp ante-room to heaven, and you were 
obliged to begin with that.” 

He breathed a deep siglj, but she smiled upon him with 
the sublime smile in which two teeth were wanting. Javert 
had written a letter during the past night, and pos^ it him- 
self the next morning. It was lor Paris, and the address was 
— Monsieur Chabouillet, Secretary to the Prefect of Police.'^ 
As a rumour had spread about the affair in the police-office, 
the lady-manager of the post, and some other persons who saw 
the letter before it was sent off, and recognized Javert's 
handwriting, supposq^ that he was sending in his resignation. 
M. Madeleine hjpstened to write to the Th6nardiers. Fantine 
owed them over 120 francs, and he sent them 300, bidding 
them pay themselves out of the amount, and bring the child 

at once to M , where a sick mother was awaiting it. This 

dazzled Thenardier. Hang it all,” he said to his wife, ” we 
must not let the brat go, for the lark will become a milch cow 
lor us. I see it all ; some mllow has fallen in love with the 
mother.” He replied by sending a bill for 500 and odd francs. 
Two undeniable anopunts figured in this bill, one from a physi- 
cian, the other from an apothecary, who had attended Eponine 
and Azelma in a long illness. At the bottom of the bill Th^nar- 
dier gave credit for 300 francs received on account. M, Made- 
leine at once sent 300 francs more, and wrote, Make haste and 
bring Cosette.” 

” Christi I ” said Thenardier, " we must not let the child go/^ 

In the meanwhile Fantine did not recover, and still re- 
mained in the infirmary. The sisters had at first received 
ft&amp;d nursed ** this girl ” with some repugnance. But in a few 



92 LES S^ISERABLES 

days Fantine disarmed them ; she had all sorts of humble and 
gentle words, and the mother within her was touching. 

M. Madeleine went to see her twice a day, and every time 
she asked him, “ Shall I see my Cosette soon ? ” 

He would answer, — To-morrow, perhaps ; she can arrive 
at any moment, for I am expecting her.'' 

And the mother's pale face would grow radiant. 

Oh ! " she said, “ how happy I shall be ! " 

We have said that she did not improve ; on the contrary, 
her condition seemed to grow worse week by week. The 
handful of snow placed between her naked shoulder-blades 
produced a sudden check of perspiration, which caused the 
illness that had smouldered in her for years suddenly to break 
out. Larmier’s fine method for studying and healing diseases 
of the lungs was just beginning to be employed ; the phy- 
sician placed the stethoscope to Fantine’s chest, and shook his 
head. M. Madeleine said to him, “ Well ? ” 

Has she not a child that she wishes to see ? ** asked the 
doctor. 

“ Yes." 

" Well, make haste to send for her." 

Madeleine gave a start, and Fantine asked him,— 

" What did the doctor say to you ?/’ 

M. Madeleine forced a smile. ^ 

" He said that your child must come at once, for that would 
mre you." 

Oh," she replied, " he is right ; but what do those Th6- 
nardiers mean by keeping my Cosette ? Oh, she will come, 
and then I shall see happiness flose to me." 

Thenardier, however, would not let the child go, an^ alleged 
a hundred poor excuses. Cosette was ailing, and it would 
be dangerous for her to travel in winter, |,nd then there were 
some small debts still to pay, which he was collecting, etc. 

" I will send some one to fetch Cosette," said Father Made* 
leine ; “ if necessary I will go myself." 

He wrote to Fantine’s dictation the following letter, which 
she signed. 

M. Thenardier, 

“ You will hand over Cosette to the bearer, who 
will pay up all little matters. 

" Yours, Fantine.*^ 



LES MISER|LBLES 93 

About this time, a great incident happened. However 
cleverly we may have carved the mysterious block of which 
our life is made, the black vein of destiny ever reappears in it. 

One morning M. Madeleine was in his study engaged in 
settling some pressing mayoralty matters, in case he decided 
on the journey to Montfermeil, when he was told that Inspector 
JavertVished to speak with him. On hearing this name pro- 
nounced, M. Madeleine could not refrain from a disagreeable 
impression. 

** Show him in," he said. 

On entering, Javert bowed to M. Madeleine with a look 
in which there was neither rancour, anger, nor suspicion. 
There was nothing but a gloomy sadness on this face, which 
was impenetrable and simple as granite. His whole person 
displayed humiliation and firmness, and a sort of courageous 
despondency. At length the Mayor laid down his pen, and 
half turned round. 

** Well, what is the matter, Javert t " 

Javert remained silent for a moment, as if reflecting, and 
then raised his voice with a sad solemnity, which, however, did 
not exclude simplicity. 

** A culpable deed has been committed, sir. An inferior 
agent of authority has failed in his respect to a magistrate 
in the gravest matter. I have come, as is my duty, to briny 
the fact to your knowledge.” 

“ Who is this agent ? ” M. Madeleine asked. 

Myself.” 

“ And who is the magistrate who has cause to complain of 
the agent ? ” 

“ You, Monsieur le Maire! I have come to request that 
you will procure my dismissal from the service.” 

M. Madeleine in his stupefaction opened his mouth, but 
Javert interrupted %im, — 

You will say that I could have sent in my resignation, 
but that is not enough. Such a course is honourable, but I 
have done wrong and deserve punishment. I must be dis- 
charged.” 

And after a pause he added, — 

“ Monsieur le Maire, you were severe to me the other day 
unjustly, be so to-day justly.” 

' What is the meaning of all this nonsense ? ” M. Made- 



94 LES ^SEBABLES 

». 

leine exclaimed. " What have you done to me ! You accuse 
yourself, you wish to be removed — ” 

“ Discharged/' said Javert. 

“ Very good, discharged. I do not understand it." 
Javert heaved a deep sigh, and continued still coldly and 
Badly, — 

" Six weeks ago, M. le Maire, after the scene about that girl, 
I was furious, and denounced you to the Prefect of Police at 
Paris." 

M. Madeleine, who did not laugh much oftener than Javert, 
burst into a laugh. 

“ As a Mayor who had encroached on the police ? " 

“ As an ex-galley slave," 

The Mayor turned livid, but Javert, who had not raised his 
eyes, continued, — 

" I thought you were so. A resemblance, information you 
sought at Paverolles, the strength of your loins, the adventure 
with old Fauchelevent, your skill in firing, your leg, which 
halts a little — and so on. It was very absurd, but I took 
you for a man of the name of Jean Valjean, a convict I saw 
twenty years ago when I was assistant-keeper at the Toulon 
bagne. On leaving the galley, this Valjean, as it appears, 
robbed a bishop, and then committed a highway robbery on a 
little Savoyard. For eight years he has been out of the way and 
could not be found, and I imagined — ^in a word, I did as I said. 

M. Madeleine, who had taken up the charge book again, said 
with a careless accent, — 

** And what was the answer you received ! 

** That I was mad’ ! — ^and they were right."- 
** It is fortunate that you aUow it," 

“ I must do so, for the real Jean Valjean has been found.*' 
The book M. Madeleine was holding fell from his grasp, 
he raised his head, looked seorchingly a^ Javert, and said 
with an indescribable accent,— 

“Oh!" 

“ The facts are m follows, M. le Maire. It seems that 
there was over at Ailly le Haut Cloche, an old fellow who was 
called Father Champmathieu. He was very wretched, and no 
attention was paid to him. This autumn Father Champ- 
tnathieu was arrested for stealing cider apples. As the look- 
up was under repair, the magistrates ordered that Champ- 



LES MIS£R|BLES 96 

t 

mathieu should be taken to the departmental prison at Arras. 
In this*prison there is an ex-convict of the name of Brevet, who 
has been made room-turnkey for his good behaviour. Champ- 
mathieu no sooner arrived than Brevet cries out, * Why, I 
know this man : he is an ex-convict. Look at me, old fellow : 
you are Jean Valjean. You were at the Toulon bagne twenty 
years ago, and I was there too.' Champmathieu denied iden- 
tity. But besides Brevet, there are two other convicts who 
remember him. These two were brought from the bagne 
and confronted with the pretended Champmathieu, and 
they did not hesitate for a moment. It was at this very 
time that I sent my denunciation to Paris, and the answer 
I received was that I had lost my senses, for Jean Valjean 
was in the hands of justice at Arras. You can conceive that 
this surprised me, as I fancied that I held my Jean Valjean 
here. I wrote to the magistrates, who sent for me, and 
Champmathieu was brought in." 

“ Well 1 " M. Madeleine interrupted him. 

Javert answered with his incorruptible and sad face, — 

“ Monsieur le Maire, truth is truth : 1 am sorry, but that 
man is Jean Valjean : I recognized him too. And now that 
I have seen the real Jean Valjean, I cannot understand how 
I could have believed anything else. I ask your pardon, M. 
le Maire." 

M. Madeleine merely answered his entreaty with the hurried 
question, — 

“ And what does this man say t " 

** Well, Monsieur le Maire, it is an ugly business, for if 
he is Jean Valjean, he is an escaped convict. It is no longer 
a matter for the police courts, but for the assizes ; it is no 
longer imprisonment for a few days, but the galleys for life. 
But Jean Valjean is artful, and in that I recognize him too. 
Any other man wofild struggle, cry out, refuse to be Jean 
Valjean, and so on. He pretends not to understand, and says, 
* I am Champmathieu, and I shall stick to it.' He has a look 
of amazement, and plays the brute-beast, which is better^ Oh ! 
he is a clever scoundrel I But no matter, the proofs are 
ready to hand ; he has been recognized by four persons, and 
the old scoundrel will be found guilty. He is to be tried at 
Arras assizes, and 1 have been summoned as a witness." 

M. Madeleine had turned round to his desk again, and was 



LES \IISEBABLES 

busily reading and writing in turn. Ha now said to the 
Inspector, — ^ * 

“ Enough, Javert ; after all, these details interest me but 
very slightly; we are losing our time, and have a deal of 
work before us. Did you not state you were going to Arras 
on this matter in a week or ten days ? " 

“ Sooner than that, sir ? " 

“ On what day, then." 

** I fancied I told you that the trial comes off to-morrow, 
and that I should start by to-night’s coach," 

‘‘ And how long will the trial last ? " 

“ A day at the most, and sentence will be passed to-morrow 
night at the latest. But I shall not w^ait for that, but return 
60 soon as I have given my evidence." 

" Very good," said M. Madeleine, and he dismissed Javert 
W’ith a wave of his hand. But he did not go. 

" What's the matter now ? " M. Madeleine asked. 

“ I have one thing to remind you of, sir. I must be dis- 
charged." 

M. Madeleine rose. 

“ Javert, you are a man of honour, and I esteem you ; you 
exaggerate your fault. I insist on your keeping your 
situation." 

Javert looked atM. Madeleine with his bright eyes, in which 
it seemed as if his unenlightened but rigid conscience could be 
seen, and he said quietly, — 

“ M, le Maire, I cannot allow it.” 

“I repeat,” M. Madeleine replied, “that the affair con- 
cerns myself.” 

But Javert, only attending to bis own thoughts, continued, — 
“ M. le Maire, I am bound to treat myself as 1 would treat 
another man; when I repressed malefactors, when I was 
severe with scamps, I often said to myseff, ‘ If you ever catch 
yourself tripping, look out.* I have tripped, I have committed 
a fault, and all the worse for me. I have strong arms, and will 
turn labourer. M. le Maire, the good of the service requires an 
example. I simply demand the discharge of Inspector Javert.** 
“ We will see,** said M. Madeleine, and he offered him his 
Land, but Javert fell back, and said sternly, — 

“ Pardon me, sir, but that must not be ; a mayor ought not 
to give his hand to a spy.” 



LES MISSrIbLES 


97 


He added between his teeth, — 

** Ti^s, a spy ; from the moment when I misused my au- 
thority, I have been only a spy.” 

Then he bowed deeply and walked to the door. When 
he reached it he turned round and said, with eyes still bent on 
the ground, — 

“ M. ie Maire, I will continue on duty till my place is filled 
up.” 

He went out. M. Madeleine thoughtfully listened to his 
firm, sure step as he walked along the paved passage. 

CHAPTER V 

In the afternoon that followed Javert’s visit, M. Madeleine 
went to see Fantine as usual. 

The patient daily awaited the appearance of M. Madeleine, 
as if he brought her warmth and light ; she said to the sisters, 
” I only live when M. le Maire is here.” This day she was very 
feverish, and so soon as she saw M. Madeleine she asked him, — 

“ IVhere is Cosette ? ” 

He replied with a smile, “She will be here soon.” 

M. Madeleine behaved to Fantine as usual, except that he 
remained with her an hour instead of half an hour, to her great 
delight. He pressed® everybody not to allow the patient to 
want for anything, and it was noticed at one moment that his 
face became very dark, but this was explained when it was 
learnt that the physician had bent down to his ear and said, 
“ She is rapidly sinking.” Then he returned to the Mayoralty, 
and the office clerk saw him attentively examining a road-map 
of France which hung in his^ room, and write a few figures in 
pencil On a piece of paper. 

From the Mayoralty M. Madeleine proceeded to the end 
of the town to a Fleming called Master Scaufflaer, gallicized 
into Scaufliaire, who let out horses and gigs by the day. M. 
Madeleine found Master Scaufflaire at home, and engaged in 
mending a set of harness. 

“Master Scaufilaire,” he asked him, “have you a good 
horse ? ” 

“ M. le Maire,” the Fleming replied, “ all my horses are 
good. What do you mean by a good horse ? ” 

“ I mean a horse that can cover twenty leagues of ground 

D 



98 LES iftSEBABLES 

in a day, and be in a condition to start again the next morning 
if necessary.*’ • 

“ M. le Maire,” the Fleming continued, “ I can suit you. My 
little white horse, you may have seen it pass sometimes, is full 
of fire. They tried at first to make a saddle-horse of it, but it 
reared and threw everybody that got on its back. I bought it 
and put it in a gig. But you must not try to get on its back, 
for it has no notion of being a saddle-horse. Do you know how 
to drive ? *’ 

“ Yes.** 

“ Well, you must travel alone and without luggage, in 
order not to overweight the horse.” 

“ Agreed.” 

“ I shall expect thirty francs a day, and the dajns of rest 
paid for as well. Not a farthing less, and you wiU pay for 
the horse’s keep.” 

M. Madeleine took three Napoleons from his purse and 
laid them on the table. 

“ There are two days in advance.” 

” As I think a cabriolet would be too heavy for such a 
journey, and tire the horse, you must oblige me by travelling 
in a little tilbury I have.” 

The Mayor merely raised his head and said, briefly — 

“The tilbury and the horse will b^ before my door at 
half-past four to-morrow morning.” 

“ Very good, sir,” Scaufflaire answered. 

The reader has, of course, guessed that M. Madeleine is 
Jean Valjean. 

We have but little to add to what the reader already knows 
as having happened to Jean Valjean since his adventure 
with little Gervais. From this moment, as we ha'C^e seen, 
he became another man, and he made himself what the 
Bishop wished to make him. It was moi% than a transform- 
ation, it was a transfiguration. He succeeded in disappear- 
ing, sold the Bishop’s plate, only keeping the candlesticks as 

a souvenir, passed through France, reached M , had the 

idea we have described, accomplished what we have narrated, 
managed to make himself unseizable and inaccessible, and 

henceforth settled at M ^ happy at feeling his conscience 

saddened by the past, and die tot half of his existence con- 
tradicted by the last half. Despite of all his caution and pru- 



LES MISEl^ABLES 


99 


deuce, he had kept the BiBhop’s candlesticks, worn irioiirning 
for him, questioned all the little Savoyards who passed through 
the town, inquired after the family at Faverolles, and saved 
the life of old Fauchelevent, in spite of the alarming insinu- 
ations of Javert. It seemed that he thought, after the ex- 
ample of all those who have been wise, holy, and just, that his 
first duty was not toward himself. 

Still, we are bound to say, nothing like the present had 
before occurred. At the moment when the name which he 
had buried so deeply was so strangely pronounced, he was 
struck with stupor, and, as it were, intoxicated by the sinister 
peculiarity of his destiny. He felt the shadows full of thun- 
der and lightning collecting over his head : while listening to 
Javert he had a thought of running off, denouncing himself, 
taking Champmathieu out of prison, and taking his place. 
This was painful, like an incision in the flesh, but it passed 
away, and he said to himself. We will see I he repress^ this 
first generous movement, and recoiled before his heroism. 

For the remainder of the day he was in the same state — 
a hurricane within, a deep tranquillity outside. All was still 
confused and jumbled in his bmin ; the trouble in it was so 
great that he did not see distinctly the outline of any idea, 
and he could have said nothing about himself, save that he 
had received a heav^ blow. He went as usual to Fantine’s 
bed of pain, and prolonged his visit, with a kindly instinct, 
Ba 3 ring to himself that he must act thus, and recommend her 
to the sisters in the event of his being obliged to go away. 
He felt vaguely that he must perhaps go to Arras ; and, though 
not the least in the world decided about the journey, he said 
to himself that, safe from (ftispicion as he was, there would 
be no harm in being witness of what might take place, and he 
hired Scaufilaire’s tilbury, in order to be ready for any event. 

He dined with^considerable appetite, and, on returning 
to his bed-room, reflected on the position in which he now 
found himself. He began by noticing that, however critical 
and extraordinary his situation might be, he was utterly 
the master of it. What am 1 afraid of 1 he said to him- 
self; “there was only one open door through which my 
past could burst in upon my life : and that door is now walled 
up for ever. That Javert, who has so long annoyed me, 
is satisfied, he will leave me at peace, for he has got his Jean 



100 LES MteEBABLES 

Vaijcan ! It is possible that he may wish to leave the town 
too. And all this has taken place without my interference, 
and so, w'hat is there so unlucky in it 1 Rrovidence has 
done it all, and apparently decrees it. I will let matters 
take their course, and leave the decision to Heaven.” 

On the other l^nd, if he gave himself up, freed this man 
who was sufEering from so grievous an error, resumed his 
name, became through duty the convict Jean Valjean, that 
would be really completing his resurrection, and eternally 
closing the inferno from which he was emerging ! Falling 
back into it apparently would be leaving it in reality ! He 
must do this : he would have done nothing unless he did 
this ; all his life would be useless ; all his reputation thrown 
away. He felt that the Bishop wjis here, tiiat he was the 
more present because he was dead, that the Bishop vras stead' 
fastly looking at him, and that henceforth Madeleine the 
Mayor would be an abomination to him, and Jean Valjean, 
the convict, admirable and pure in his sight. Men saw his 
mask, but the Bishop saw his face ; men saw his life, but the 
Bishop saw his conscience. He must consequently go to 
Arras, deliver the false Jean Valjean, and denounce the true 
one . Alas ! this was the greatest of sacrifices, the most poignan t 
of victories, the last step to take ; but he must take it. Frightful 
destiny his! he could not obtain sancJtity in the sight of 
Heaven unless he returned to infamy in the sight of man. 

“ Well,” he said, “ I will make up my mind to this. I will 
do my duty and save this man.” 

He uttered those words aloud without noticing he had 
raised his voice. He fetched his books, verified and put them 
in order. He threw into the fire^a number of claims he had 
upon embarrassed tradesmen, and wrote a letter, which he 
addressed ” To M. Lafitte, banker, Rue d’ Artois, Paris.” He 
then took from his desk a pocket-book, ^hich contained a 
few bank-notes and the passport he had employed just pte* 
viously to go to the elections. Any one who had seen him 
while he was accomplishing these various acts, with which 
such grave meditation was mingled, would not have suspected 
what was taking place in him. At moments his lips moved, 
at others he raised his head and looked at a part of the waU, 
as if there were something there which he desired to clear 
up or question. 



LES MISEBABLES 


101 


As he felt cold, he lit a file, but did not dream of closing the 
window, although by this time midnight had struck. Then 
he fell back into his stupor, and was obliged to make a mighty 
effort to remember what he had been thinking of. At last he 
succeeded. 

Ah yes,” he said to himself, ** I had formed the resolution 
to deifounce myself.” 

And then he suddenly began thinking of Fantine. 

“ Stay,” he said, “ and that poor woman ! ” 

Here a fresh crisis broke out : Fantine, suddenly appearing 
in the midst of his reverie, was like a ray of unexpected light. 
He fancied that all changed around him, and exclaimed, — 

” Wait a minute ! Hitherto I have thought of myself, and 
consulted my own convenience. Whether it suits me to be 
silent or denounce myself— be a contemptible and respected 
magistrate, or an infamous and venerable convict — it is always 
self, nought but self. Suppose I were to think a little about 
others ! If I denounce myself, that Champmathieu will be set 
at liberty. I shall be sent back to the galleys, and what then ? 
What will occur here t Here are a town, factories, a trade, 
work-people, men, women, old grandfathers, children, and poor 
people : I have created all this. Wherever there is a chimney 
smoking, I placed the brand in the fire and the meat in the 
saucepan : I have jStoduced easy circumstances, circulation 
and credit. 1 revived, animated, fertilized, stimulated, and 
enriched the whole district. When I am gone the soul will 
be gone ; if I withdraw all will die ; and then, this woman, 
who has suffered so greatly, and whose misfortune I unwit- 
tingly caused — and the child which I intended to go and fetch, 
and restore to the mother— ^o not I also owe something to 
this wbman, in reparation of the wrong which I have done 
her ? If I disappear, what will happen ? The mother dies, 
and the child wiU*become what it can. This will happen if 
I denounce myself. If I do not denounce myself ? Come, 
let me see.” He hesitated and trembled slightly. “Well, 
this man will go to the galleys, it is true, but, hang it all, 
he has stolen. I remain here and continue my operations ; 
in ten years I shall have gained ten millions. 1 spread them 
over the country. The prosperity of all is increased ; trades 
are revived, factories and forges are multiplied, and thousands 
of families are happy ; wretchedness disappears, and with it 



102 LES MISERABLES 

debauchery, prostitution, robbery, murder, all the vices, ail the 
crimes — ^aud this poor mother brings up her child. Why, I 
was mad when I talked about denouncing myself, and I must 
guard against precipitation. What ! because it pleases me to 
play the grand and the generous — because I only thought of 
myself, and in order to save from a perhaps eaaggerated 
though substantially just punishment a stranger, a thief, *and an 
apparent scoundrel — ^a whole department must perish ! a 
woman die in the hospital, and a poor child starve in the streets, 
like dogs ! Why, it is abominable ! These are fine scruples 
that save a culprit and sacrifice the innocent. That poor little 
Cosette, wlio has only me in the world, and is doubtless at this 
momejit shivering with cold in the den of those Th6nardiers. 
There is another pair of wretches, Let us put things at the 
worst : suppose that I am committing a bad action in this, and 
that my conscience reproaches me Avith it some day ; — there 
will be devotion and virtue in accepting, for the good of my 
neighbour, these reproaches, which only weigh on me, and 
this bad action, which only compromises my own soul. Yes,’* 
he continr*ed, with apparent self-satisfaction, “I am on the 
right track and hold the solution of the problem. I will let 
matters take their course. It is for the interest of all, not of 
myself. I remain Madeleine, and w*oe to the man who is 
Jean Valjean. I do not know that man, and if any one 
happen to be Jean Valjean at this moment, he must look 
out for himself, for it does not concern me. It is a fatal 
name that floats in the night, and if it stop and settle on a head, 
all the worse for that head.” 

He walked a little way, and then stopped short. ** Come,” 
he said, “ I must not hesitate before any of the consequences of 
the resolution I have formed. There are threads wKch stiD 
attach mo to Jean Valjean Avhich must be broken. There are 
in tills very room objects which would accuse me, — dumb things 
which would serve as witnesses, and they must all disappear.” 

He took his purse from his pocket, and drew a small key 
out of it. He put this key into a lock, the hole of which could 
scarcely be seen, for it was hidden in the darkest part of the 
desi^ on the paper that covered the walls. A sort of false cup- 
board made between the comer of the wall and the mantelpiece 
Was visible. In this hiding-place there were only a few rags— 
a blue blouse, womtrowsers, an old knapsack, and a large thorn- 



LES MISEBABLES 


103 


stick, shod with iron at both ends. Any one who saw Jehn. 

Valjean pass through D in October, 1816, would easily 

have recognized all these wretched articles. He had preserved 
them, as he had done the candlesticks, that they might con- 
stantly remind him of his starting-point. He took a furtive 
glance at the door, as if afraid that it might open in spite of the 
bolt ; and then wdth a rapid movement he made but one armful 
of the things he had so religiously and perilously kept for so 
many years, and threw them all — rags, stick, and knapsack — 
into the fire. He closed the cupboard, and, redoubling his 
precautions, which were now useless, since it was empty, 
dragged a heavy piece of furniture in front of it. In a few 
seconds, the room and opposite wall were lit up with a large 
red and flickering glow ; all was burning, and the thorn-stick 
crackled and threw out sparks into the middle of the room. 
From the knapsack, as it burned with all the rags it contained, 
fell something that glistened in the ashes. On stooping it 
could be easily recognized as a coin ; it was doubtless the little 
Savoyard’s two-franc piece. He did not look at the fire, and 
continued his walk backwards and forv-^ards. All at once 
his eye fell on the two candlesticks, which the fire-light caused 
to shine vaguely on the mantel-piece. 

“ Stay,” he thought, “ all Jean Valjean is in them, and they 
must bo destroyed tfto.” 

He seized the candlesticks — there was a fire large enough 
to destroy their shape, and convert them into unrecognizable 
ingots. He leant over the hearth and warmed his hands for a 
moment ; it was a great comfort to him. 

He stirred up the ashes with one of the candlesticks, and 
in a moment they were both4n the fire. All at once he fancied 
he heard a voice cry within him, “ Jean Valjean ! Jean Val- 
jean ! ” His hair stood erect, and he became like a man who 
is listening to a tArible thing. 

” Yes, that is right ; finish I ” the voice said ; “ complete 
what you are about ; destroy those candlesticks, annihilate that 
reminiscence I forget the Bishop 1 forget everything ! ruin that 
Champmathieu ; that is right. Applaud yourself ; come, all 
is settled and resolved on. This old man, who does not Imow 
what they want with him, who is perhaps innocent, whose 
whole misfortune your name causes, on whom your name 
weighs like a crime, is going to be taken for you, sentenced. 



104 


LES MISEBABLES 


and will end his days in abjectness and honor. That is excel* 
lent ! Be an honest man yourself ; remain Mayor, honourable 
and honoured, enrich the town, assist the indigent, bring us 
orphans, live happy, virtuous, and applauded ; and during the 
time, while you are here in joy and light, there will be some- 
body who wears your red jacket, bears your name in ignominy, 
and drags along your chain at the galleys. Tea, that is excel- 
lently arranged. Oh I you scoundrel ! ” 

The perspiration beaded on his forehead, and he fixed his 
haggard eye upon the candlesticks. The voice ^within him, 
however, had not ended yet. 

“Jean Valjean I there will be around you many voices 
making a great noise, speaking very loud and blessing you, 
and one which no one will hear, and which will curse you in 
the darkness. Well, listen, infamous man I all these blessings 
will fall back on the ground before reaching Heaven, and the 
curse alone will ascend to God ! ” 

This voice, at first very faint, and which spoke from the 
obscurest nook of his conscience, had gradually become sonor- 
ous and formidable, and he now heard it in his ear. He fancied 
that it was not his own voice, and he seemed to hear the last 
words so distinctly that he looked round the room with a 
species of terror. 

“ Is there any one here f ” he asked,*- in a loud voice and 
wildly. 

Then he continued with a laugh which seemed almost idiotic — 

“ What a fool I am 1 there can be nobody.” 

There was somebody; but He was not of those whom the. 
human eye can see. He placed the candlesticks on the man- 
telpiece, and then resumed that^melancholy, mournful walk, 
which aroused the sleeper underneath him. This walking re- 
lieved him, and at the same time intoxicated him. 

Alas ! all his irresolution had seized hint again, and he was 
no further advanced than at the beginning. Thus the wretched 
soul writhed in agony 1 

Three a.m. had struck, and he had been walking about in 
this way for five hours without a break, when he fell into his 
chair, and fell asleep. 

His slumber was disturbed by a poignant and mournful 
dream connected with his present situation, in the midst of 
which he woke up, dulled to the marrow, for a wind, cold as the 



LES MISERABLES 


106 

morning breeze, was shaking the open window. The fire had 
died* away, the candle was nearly burned out, and it was still 
black night. He rose and went to the window ; there were 
still no stars in the sky. From his window he could see the 
yard, and his street, and a dry sharp sound on the ground be- 
low him induced him to look out. He saw two red stars whose 
rays lengthened and shortened curiously in the gloom. As 
his mind was half submerged in the mist of dreams, he thought, 
“ There are no stars in the sky : they are on the earth now.” 
A second sound like the first completely woke him, and he p^- 
ceived that those two stars were carriage lamps, and by the 
light which they projected he could distinguish the shape of 
the vehicle — it was a tilbury, in which a small white horse 
was harnessed. The sound he had heard was the pawing of 
the horse’s hoof on the ground. 

“ What’s the meaning of this conveyance ? ” he said to him- 
self ; “ w^ho can have come at so early an hour ? ” 

At this moment there was a gentle tap at his bed-room 
door ; he shuddered from head to foot, and shouted in a terri- 
ble voice, “ Who’s there 1 ” 

Some one replied, “ I sir,” and he recognized his old serv- 
ant’s voice. 

“ The tilbury has come, sir.” 

“ What tilbury ? * 

“ Did you not order one ? The ostler says that he has 
come to fetch M. le Maire.” 

‘‘What ostler?” 

“M. ScaufEUiire’s.” 

This name made him start as if a flash of lightning had 
passed before his eyes. • 

“ Ah, yes,” he repeated, ” M. Scaufilaire.” 

Could the old woman have seen him at this moment, she 
would have been horrified. There was a lengthened silence, 
during which he stupidly examined the candle flame, and rolled 
up some of the wax in his fingers. The old woman, who was 
waiting, at length mustered up courage to raise her voice 
again. 

” M. le Maire, what answer am I to give ? ” 

“ Say it is quite right, and that I shall be down directly.” 

On this morning, the mail-cart, just as it entered M ^ 

and while turning a comer, ran into a tilbury drawn by a white 



106 


LES MISEBABLES 


horse, coming in the opposite direction, and in which there was 
only one sitter, a man wrapped in a cloak. Tlio wheel of the 
tilbury received a rather heavy blow, and though the driver of 
the mail-cart shouted to the man to stop, he did not listen, but 
went on at a smart trot. 

“That man is in a deuce of a hurry,” said the courier* 

It was broad daylight when M. Madeleine reached Efesdin, 
and he stopped at the inn to let the horse breathe and give it 
a feed. The capital little beast had done five leagues in two 
hours, and had Jiot tunied a hair. 

He did not get out of the tilbury ; the ostler who brought 
the oats suddenly stooped down and examined the left wheel, 

“ Have you come far in this state 1 ” the man said. 

“Five leagues.” 

“Ah!” 

“ Why do you say, ah ? ” 

The ostler bent down again, remained silent for a moment, 
with his eye fixed on the w heel, and then said as he drew him- 
self up — 

“Because this wheel, which may have gone five leagues, 
cannot possibly go another mile.” 

The wheel was, in fact, seriously damaged. The blow dealt 
it by the mail-cart had broken two spokes, and almost carried 
away the axle-tree. * 

** f(dlow%” he said to the ostler, “ is there a wheel- 

wright here ? ” 

“ Of course, sir. He lives close by. Hilloh, Master Bout- 
gaillard.” 

Master Bourgaillard' w'as standing in his doorway : he ex- 
amined the wheel, and made a fadb like a surgeon regarding a 
broken leg. 

“ Can you mend this wheel t 

“Yea, sir.” ^ 

^\Tien can I start again ? ” 

To-morrow : there is a good day’s work. Are you in a 
hurry, sir?” o ^ j 

latest li^rry ; I must set out again in an hour at the 

It is impossible; you will not be able to go on till to- 
morrow. ^ 

“Have you a gig I can hire ! “ 



LES MISEBABLES 107 

The wheelwright had noticed at a glance that the tilbuiy 
was^ hired vehicle; he shrugged his shoulders. 

“ You take such good care of gigs you hire, that if I had 
one I would not let it to you.** 

“Well, one to seU me?** 

“I have not one.** 

“ Is there not the Arras mail-cart ? When does that 
pass ? *’ 

“ Not till to-night.’* 

“ Is there any one who lets out vehicles in the town ? ** 

“ No.” 

“ Is there another wheelwright 1 ” 

The ostler and the wheelwright replied simultaneously, — 

“ No.” 

He felt an immense joy, for it was evident that Providence 
was interfering. It was she who had broken the tilbury wheel 
and stopped his journey. He had not yielded to this species of 
first summons ; he had made every possible cflort to continue 
his journey ; he had loyally and scrupulously exhausted all re- 
sources ; he had not recoiled before the season, fatigue, or ex- 
pense ; and he had nothing to reproach himself with. If he did 
not go further, it did not concern him ; it w’as not liis fault, it 
was not the doing of his conscience, but of Providence. He 
breathed freely and fully for the first time since Javert’s 
visit. 

While he was questioning the wheelwright, some passers- 
by stopped around, and a lad to whom no one paid any atten- 
tion, after listening for some moments, ran off. At the instant 
when the traveller made up his mind to turn back, this boy re- 
turned, accompanied by aft old woman. 

“Sir,” the woman said, “my boy ttjlls me that you wish to 
hire a conveyance 1 ” &gt;, 

This simple remark, made by an old woman led by a child, 
made the perspiration pour down his back. He fancied he 
saw the hand which had let him loose reappear in the shadow 
behind him, ready to clutch him again. He replied, — 

“Yes, my good woman, I want to hire a gig. But there 
is not one in the town.” 

“Yes, there is,” said the old woman; “at my house." 

He gave a start, for the fatal hand had seized him again. 
The poor woman really had a sort of wicker-cart under a Aed. 



108 


LES MISERABLES 


Thd wheelwright and the ostler, sorry to see the traveller 
escape them, interfered; — « 

“ It was a frightful rattle-trap, and had no springs,— it is 
true that the inside seats were hung with leathern straps — the 
rain got into it — the wheels were nisty, and ready to fall to 
pieces — it would not go much further than the tilbury — the 
gentleman had better not get into it,** — and so on. • 

All this was true, but the rattle-trap, whatever it might be, 
rolled on two wheels, and could go to Arras. He paid what was 
asked, left the tilbury to be repaired against his return, had the 
horse put into the cart, got in, and went his way. 

He had lost much time at Hesdin, and would have liked to 
recover it. The little home was courageous, and worked for 
two ; but it was February, it had been raining, and the roads 
were bad. The cart too ran much more heavily than the tilbury, 
and there were nimicrous ascents. He took nearly four hours 
in going from Hesdin to St. Pol : four hours for five leagues 1 
Twilight was setting in at the moment when the school-boys, 
leaving school, saw' this traveller enter Tinques. He did not 
halt there, but as he left the village, a road-mender, who was 
laying stones, raised his head, and said to him, — 

“ Your horse is very tired. Are you going to Arras ? ’■ 
“ Yes.’* 

“ If you go at that pace, you will not veach it very soon.** 
He stopped his horse, and asked the road-mender,— 
How far is it from here to Arras ? ** 

“ Nearly seven long leagues.” 

“ How so ? the post-book says only five and a quarter 
leagues.” 

“ Ah,** the road-mender continued, “ the road is under re- 
pair ; you will find it cut up about a mile further on, and it is 
impossible to pass. You must take the road on the left, that 
runs to Carency, and cross the river ; when you reach Camblin 
you will turn to the right, for it is the Mont Saint Eloy road 
that runs to Arras.” 

“ But I shall lose my way in the dark.” 

• ^ cross-road; stay, sir,” the road-mender con- 

tmued, “ will you let me give you a piece of advice ? Your 
horse is tired, so return to Tinques, where there is a good inn ; 
sleep there, and go to Arras to-morrow.” 

“I must be there to-night.” 



LES MISBBABLES 


109 


"^^That is different. In that case go back to the inn all 
the'same, and hire a second horse. The stable boy will act as 
your guide across the country.” 

He took the road-mender’s advice, turned back, and half 
an hour after passed the same spot at a sharp trot with a 
strong second horse. A stable lad, who called himself a pos- 
tilion, was sitting on the shafts of the cart. Still he felt that 
he had lost time, for it was now dark. They entered the cross 
road, and it soon became frightful ; the cart fell out of one rut 
into another, but he said to the postilion, — 

” Keep on at a trot, and I will give you a double fee.’* 
In one of the jolts the trace-bar broke. 

“ The bar is broken, sir,” said the postilion, ” and I do not 
know how to fasten my horse, and the road is very bad by 
night. If you will go back and sleep at Tinques, we can get 
to Arras at an early hour to-morrow.” 

He answered, “ Have you a piece of rope and a knife t ” 
“Yes, sir.” 

He cut a branch and made a trace-bar ; it was a further loss 
of twenty minutes but they started again at a gallop. The 

K * a was dark, and a low, black fog was creeping over the 
. A heavy wind, which came from the sea, made in all the 
comers of the horj^on a noise like that of furniture being 
moved. All that he* could see had an attitude of terror, for 
how many things shudder beneath the mighty breath of night I 
The cold |)ierced him, for he had eaten nothing since the previ- 
ous mommg. He vaguely recalled his other night-excursion, 

on the great plain of D , eight years before, and it seemed 

to him to be yesterday. A^clock struck from a distant steeple, 
and he asked the lad, — 

“ What o’clock is that ? ” 

“ Seven, sir, ai)^ we shall be at Arras by eight, for we have 
only three leagues to go.” 

At this moment he made for the first time this reflection — 
that all the trouble he was taking was perhaps thrown away; 
he did not even know the hour for the trial, and he might at 
least have asked about that ; it was extravagant to go on thus, 
without knowing if it would be of any service. Then he made 
some mental cakulations : usually the sittings of assize courts 
began at nine o’clock, this matter would not occupy much time, 
the theft of the apples would be ^ily proved, and then there 



110 LES MISERABLES 

would be merely the identification, four or five witnesses to 
hear, and little for counsel to say. He would arrive when it 
was all over. 

The postilion flogged the horses ; they had crossed the river 
and left Mont Saint Eloy behind them ; the night was grow- 
ing more and more dark. 

At this very moment Fantine was joyful. She had passed 
a very bad night, she had coughed fearfully, and her fever had 
become worse. In the morning, when the physician paid his 
visit, she was raving ; he felt alarmed, and begged to be sent 
for so soon as M. Madeleine arrived. Ail the morning she 
was gloomy, said little, and made folds in her sheet, while mur- 
muring in a low' voice, and calculating what seemed to be dis- 
tances. Her eyes hollow and jSxed, they seemed almost 
extinct, and then, at moments, they were relit, and flashed like 
stars. It seems as if, on the approach of a certain dark hour, 
the brightness of heaven fills those whom the brightness of earth 
is quitting. Each time that Sister Simplice asked her how she 
was, she invariably answered, “ Well, but I should like to see 
M. Madeleine.” 

At about half-past two Fantine began to grow agitated, and 
in the next twenty minutes asked the nun more than ten times, 
“ What o’clock is it 1 ” Three o’clock struck : at the third 
stroke Fantine, who usually could scarce move in her bed, sat 
up ; she clasped her thin yellow hands in a sort of convulsive 
grasp, and the nun heard one of those deep sighs, which seem 
to remove a crushing weight, burst from her chest. Then 
Fantine turned and looked at the door : but no one entered, 
and the door was not opened. Shejremaincd thus for a quarter 
of an hour, with her eyes fixed on the door, motionless, and 
holding her breath. The mm did not dare speak to her, and as 
the clock struck the quarter, Fantine fell back on her pillow. 
The half-hour passed, then the hour, and no one came. Her 
thoughts could be clearly read, but she did not say a word, she 
merely coughed in a sad way. It seem&lt;id as if something dark 
was settling down on her, for she was livid and her lips were 
blue. She smiled every now and then. 

IVhen five o’clock struck, the nun heard her say very 
softly and sweetly, As I am going away to-morrow, it was 
wrong of him not to come to-day.” Sister Simplice herself was 
surprised at M. Madeleine’s delay. In the meanwhile Fantine 



LES MISEBA6LES 


111 


looked up at the top of her bed, and seemed to be trying to 
remember something : all at once she began singing in a voice 
faint as a sigh. It was an old cradle-song with which she had 
in former times lulled her little Cosctte to sleep, and which 
had not once recurred to her during the five years she had been 
parted from her child. She sang with so sad a voice and to so 
soft an air, that it was enough to make any one WTcp, even a 
nun. The sister, who was accustomed to austere things, felt a 
tear in her eye. The clock struck, and Fantine did not seem 
to hear it. Sister Simplice sent a servant-girl to inquire of the 
porteress of the factory whether M. Madeleine had returned 
and would be at the infirmary soon : tlie girl came back in a 
few minutes, Fantine w^as still motionless and apparently en- 
gaged with her own thoughts. The servant told Sister Simplice 
in a very low voice that the Mayor had set off before six o’clock 
that morning in a small tilbury ; that he had gone alone, with- 
out a driver ; that no one knew what direction he had taken, for 
while some said they had seen him going along the Arras road, 
others declared they had met him on the Paris road. He was, 
as usual, very gentle, and he had merely told his servant she 
need not expect him that night. 

While the two women were whispering with their backs 
turned to her, Fantine had knelt up in bed, with her two 
clenched hands supported by the pillow, and listened with her 
head thrust between the curtains. All at once she cried, — 
“ You are talking about M. Madeleine : wdiy do you whis- 
per ? what is he doing, and why does he not come ? ’’ 

The servant stammered, — 

** The porteress told me that he could not come to-day.*' 
" My child,** the sister srAd, “ be calm and lie down again." 
Fatitine, without changing her attitude, went on in a loud 
voice, and with an accent at once imperious and heart-rending, - 
“ He cannot cofiie : why not ? you know the reason. You 
were whispering it to one another, and I insist on knowing." 
“ The Mayor is gone on a journey." 

Fantine rose and sat up on her heels, her eyes spajrkled, 
and an ineffable joy shone on her sad face. 

"He has gone to fetch Cosette,** she exclaimed. 

Then she raised her hands to heaven, and her lips moved ; 
she was praying. When she had finished she said, " My sister, 
I am wining to lie down again and do everything you wish : 



112 


LES mSERABLES 


I w 3 m naughty just now, I ask your pardon for having spoken 
80 loud, for I know that is wrong, good sister ; but, look&lt;you, 
I am so happy. God is good, and M. Madeleine is good : only 
think, he has gone to Montfemieil to fetch my little Cosette/^ 

She lay down again, helped the nun to smooth her pillow, 
and kissed a little silver cross she wore on her neck, and which 
Sister Siniplice had given her. 

“ My child,” the sister said, ” try to go to sleep now, and do 
not speak any more.” 

“ Sister, do not say to me that I must not speak, for I am 
extremely happy: I am going on very well, I feel no pain 
at all ; I am going to see Cosette again, and I even feel very 
hungry. It is nearly five years since I saw her: you can- 
not imagine how a mother clings to her child, — and then 
she must be so pretty. She must be a great girl now, for 
she is going on for seven. I call her Cosette, but her real 
name is Euphrasie. Good Lord ! how wrong it is for a mother 
to be so many years without seeing her child ! she ought to re- 
flect that life is not eternal. Oh ! how kind it is of the Mayor 
to go ! Is it true that it is so cold ? I hope he took his cloak. 
He will be here again to-morrow, will he not ? and we will 
make a holiday of it. To-morrow morning, sister, you will re- 
mind me to put on my little cap with the lace border. Mont- 
fermeil is a great distance, but the stage coaches travel so 
quickly ! He will be here to-morrow with Cosette. 

Any one who had seen her a quarter of an hour before would 
not have understood it ; she was now quite flushed, she spoke 
with an eager natural voice, and her whole face was a smUe. At 
times she laughed while speaking to herself in a low voice. A 
mother’s joy is almost a childish»‘joy. 

“ Well ! ” the nun said, you are now happy. So obey me 
and do not speak any more.” 

Fantine laid her head on the pillow, and &amp;id in a low voice, 
** Yes, lie down, behave yourself, as you are going to have your 
child. Sister Simplice is right : all in this place are right.” 

And then without stirring, without moving her head, she 
began looking around with widely opened eyes and a joyous air, 
and said nothing more. The sister closed the curtains, hoping 
she would fall ofi to sleep. The physician arrived between 
seven and eight o’clock. Hearing no sound, he fancied Fan- 
tine asleep. He entered softly and walked up to the bed on 



LES MISEEABLES 


US 


tip-toe. He opened the curtains, and bj the light of the lanip 
saw FantWs large calm eyes fixed on him. She said to him, — 

** Oh, sir, my child will be allowed to sleep in a little cot by 
my bed-side t " 

The physician fancied she was delirious. She added, — 

“ Only look ; there is exactly room.^' 

The physician took Sister Simplice on one side, who explained 
the matter to him : that M. Madeleine was absent for a day 
or two, and being in doubt they had not thought it right to un- 
deceive the patient, who fancied that he had gone to Montfer- 
meil, and she might possibly be in the right. The physician 
approved, and returned to Fantine's bed, who said to 
him, — 

“ In the morning, when the little puss wakes up, I will say 
good-day to her, and at night I, who do not sleep, will listen 
to her sleeping. Her gentle little breathing will do me good." 

Give me your hand," said the physician. 

** Oh yes, you do not know that I am cured. Cosette 
arrives to-morrow." 

The physician was surprised to find her better : the oppres- 
sion was slighter, her pulse had regained strength, and a sort 
of recovered life was animating the poor exhausted girl. 

" Doctor," she continued, " has the sister told you that M. 
Madeleine has gone td fetch my darling ? " 

The physician recommended silence, and that any painful 
emotion should be avoided. As he went away, he said to the 
sister : " She is better. If the Mayor were to arrive with the 
child to-morrow, I do not know what would happen : though 
hers is an organic malady, we might perchance save her." 

• 

It wan nearly eight in the evening when the cart we left 
on the road drove under the archway of the post-house at 
Arras. M. Madeleiifb had taken fourteen hours in a journey 
for which ho had allowed himself six. He did himself the jus- 
tice that it was no fault of his, but in his heart he was not 
sorry at it. The landlady came in. 

Is not the post-office in this house ? " he asked. 

“ Yes, sir." 

The landlady led him to the office, where he showed his 

Pftsspoit, and mquired whether he could return to M the 

same night by the mail cart. Only one seat was vacant, and 



114 


LES MISEBABLES 

Ke took it and paid for it. “ Do not faU, air/* said the’ clerk, 
“ to be here at one o'clock precisely.” • 

This done, he left the hotel, and began walldng about the 
streets. He was not acquainted with Arras, the streets were 
dark, and he walked about hap-hazard, but he seemed obsti- 
nately determined not to ask his way of passers-by. He crossed 
the little river Crinchon, and found himself in a labyrinth of 
narrow lanes, in which he lost his way. A citizen came to- 
ward him with a lantern, whom, after some hesitation, he re- 
solved to address, though not till he had looked before and 
behind him, as if afraid lest anybody should overhear the 
question he was about to ask. 

“ Will you be kind enough to tell me the way to the courts 
of justice, sir ? ” he said. 

“ Follow me,” replied the man. ” I am going in the direc- 
tion of the couits, that is to say of the Prefecture, for the 
courts are under repair at present, and the sittings take place 
temporarily at the Prefecture.” 

On the road, the citizen said to him, — 

” If you wish to witness a trial you are rather late, for the 
court usually closes at six o'clock.” 

However, when they arrived in the great square the old man 
showed him four lofty lighted windows in a vast gloomy build- 
ing. 

** On my word, sir,” he said, “ you have arrived in time, 
and are in luck's way. Do you see those four windows ? they 
belong to the assize courts ; there must have been a long trial, 
and they are having an evening session. Are you interested in 
the trial ? ” 

He answered, — * 

“ I have not come for any trial : I only wish to speak to a 
solicitor.” 

” That is different. That is the door, %Lr, where the sentry 
is standing, and yon have only to go up the Lirge stair- 
case.” 

He followed the old man's instructions, and a few minutes 
later was in a large hall, in which there were a good many peo- 
ple and groups of robed barristers were gossiping together. 
This haU, which was large and only lighted by one lamp, served 
as a waiti^ room ; and folding doors, at this moment closed, 
separated it fh&gt;m the grand chamber in which the assises were 



LES MISEBABLES 


116 


being held. The obscurity was so great that he was not afraid 
of addJessing the first barrister he came across. 

“ Is there any way of entering the court, sir ? ” he asked. 

** I do not think so, for it is very full. Still, the trial is 
suspended, and some persons have gone out. When the court 
resumes, you can try.'' 

“ Which is the way in ? " 

** By that large door.*' 

The barrister left him. He walked up to several groups 
and listened to what they were saying ; as the trial list was 
very heavy, the President had selected for this day two simple 
and short affairs. They had begun with an infanticide, and 
were now engaged with Champmathieu, the relapsed convict. 
This man had stolen apples, but it was proved that he had al- 
ready been at the Toulon galleys. It was this that made his 
affair bad. His examination and the deposition of the wit- 
nesses were over; but there were still the speech for the 
defence and the summing up, and hence it would not be over 
till midnight. The man would probably be condemned, for 
the public prosecuto^r was sharp, and did not miss ” his per- 
son ; he was a witty fellow who wrote verses. An usher was 
standing near the door communicating with the court, and he 
asked him, — ^ 

** Will this door be opened soon ? " 

“ It will not be opened,” said the usher ; " the hall is full, 
and no one can go in.” 

The usher added after a pause , — ** There are certainly two 
or three seats behind the President, but he only admits public 
officials to them." 

After saying tliis, the ushei turned his back on him. He 
withdrew with hanging head, crossed the waiting room, and 
slowly went down |he stairs, hesitating at every step. He 
was probably holding counsel with himself. On reaching 
the landing he leant against the banisters and folded b^ 
arms; but all at once he took his pocket-book, tore a leaf 
from it, wrote in pencil upon it, “ M. Madeleine, Mayor of 
M. sor M. ; " then he hurried up the stairs, cleft the crowd, 
walked up to the usher, handed him the paper, and said to 
him with an air of authority,— “ Hand this to the President." 
The usher took the paper, glanced at it, and obeyed. 

Without suspecting the fact, the Mayor of M — enjoyed 



116 


LES MISERABLES 


a species of celebrity. The name of M. Madeleine was every- 
where pronounced with veneration, and Arraa and Dohai en- 
vied the fortunate little town of M — its Mayor. The Coun- 
cillor of the Royal Court of Douai, who presided at the present 
Arras assizes, like every one else, was acquainted with this 
deeply and universally honoured name. When the usher 
discreetly opened the door of the judges* robing-room, leant 
over the President's chair, and handed him the paper, add- 
ing, “ This gentleman wishes to hear the trial," the Pre- 
sident made a deferential movement, took up a pen, wrote a 
few words at the foot of the paper, and returned it to the 
usher, saying, — Show him in." 

The unhappy man whose history we are recording had re- 
mained near the door of the court at the same spot and in 
the same attitude as when the usher left him. He heard 
through his reverie some one say to him, " Will you do me 
the honour of following me, sir t " It was the same usher 
who had turned his back on him just before, and was now 
bowing to the ground. At the same time the usher handed 
him the paper; he unfolded it, and as he happened to be 
near the lamps he was able to read, ” The President of the 
Assize Court presents his respects to M. Madeleine." He 
crumpled the paper in his hands, as if t^e words had a strange 
and bitter after-taste for him. He followed the usher, and 
a few minutes later found himself alone in a stern-looking 
room, lighted by two wax candles standing on a green-baize- 
covered table. He still had in his ears the last words of the 
usher, who had just left him, — You are in the Board's with- 
drawing-room ; you have only to turn the handle of that 
door, and you will find yourself in court behind the Presi- 
dent's chair." These words were mingled in hj ip thoughts 
with a confused recollection of narrow passages and dark 
staircases, which he had just passed through. The usher had 
left him alone — the supreme moment had arrived. He tried 
to collect himself, but could not succeed ; for it is especially 
in the hours when men have the most need of thought that 
all the threads are broken in the brain. 

While thinking, he turned, and his eyes met the brass 
handle of the door that separated him from the assize court. 
He had almost forgotten this door, but his eye, at first calm, 
rested on it, then became wild and fixed, and was gradually 



LES MISBBABLES 117 

filled with terror. Drops of perspiration stood out between 
his hair and poured down his temples. 

This handle, which was round and made of polished brass, 
shone for him like a terrific star ; he looked at it as a sheep 
would look at the eye of a tiger. His eyes would not leave 
it, and from time to time he took a step which brought him 
nearer to the door. Had he listened he would have heard, 
like a species of confused murmur, the noise in the adjoining 
court, but he did not listen and did not hear. All at once, 
and without knowing how, he found himself close to the 
door ; he convulsively seised the handle, and the door opened. 
He was in the assize court. 

No one in the crowd paid any attention to him, for all 
eyes converged on a single point — a wooden bench placed 
against a little door, along the wall on the left of the Presi- 
dent ; on this bench, which was illumined by several candles, 
sat a man between two gendarmes. This man was the man ; 
he did not seek him, he saw him ; his eyes went here natur- 
ally, as if they had known beforehand where that face was. 
He fancied he saw himself, aged, not absolutely alike in face, 
but exactly similar in attitude and appearance, with his 
bristling hair, vrith his savage restless eyeballs, and the blouse, 

just as he was on the day when he entered D , full of 

hatred, and concealing in his mind that hideous treasure 
of frightful thoughts which he had spent nineteen years 
in collecting on the pavement of the bagne. He said to 
himself with a shudder, “ Great God, shall I become again 
like that ? ** This being appeared to be at least sixty years 
of age ; he had something about him rough, stupid, and 
startled. On hearing the sound of the door, persons made 
way for- the new comer, the President had turned his head, 
and guessing that the gentleman who had just entered was 
the Mayor of M — , Ife bowed to him. The public prosecutor, 
who had seen M. Madeleine at M — , whither his duties had 
more than once called him, recognized him and also bowled. 
He scarce noticed it, for he w^as under a species of hallucina- 
tion*, he was looking at a judge, a clerk, gendarmes, a num- 
ber of cruelly curious faces, — he had seen all this once, for- 
merly, seven-and-twenty years ago. These mournful things 
he found again, — ^they were there, stirring, existing ; it was 
longer an effort of his memory, a mirage of his mind ; 



118 


LES MISEBABLES 


they were real gendarmes, real judges, a real crowd, and real 
men in flesh and bone. He saw all the monstrous aspects of 
his past refippear, and live again around him, witli all the 
terror that redity possesses. There was a chair behind him, 
into which he fell, terrified by the idea that people could see 
him. When he was seated he took advantage of a pile of 
paste-board cases on the Judges’ desk to hide liis face from 
the spectators. He could now see without being seen: he 
fully regained the feeling of the real, and gradually recovered. 
He attained that phase of calmness in which a man can listen. 
Monsieur Bamatabois was serving on the jury. He looked 
for Javort, but could not see him, for the witnesses’ bench 
was hidden by the clerk’s table, and then the court w’as hardly 
lighted. 

At the moment when he came in, the counsel for the de- 
fence was ending his speech. He had established the fact 
that the apple robbery was not materially proved — his client, 
whom, in his quality as defender, he persistently called Champ- 
matliieu, had not been seen by any one scaling a wall or 
breaking the branch ; he had been arrested with the branch 
in his possession, but he declared that he found it on the 
ground and picked it up. Where then was the evidence 
that this Champmathieu was a robber ? Only one thing, his 
being an ex-convict. The counsel did not deny that this 
fact seemed unluckily proved. Pour witnesses unhesitatingly 
recognized Champmathieu as the galley slave, Jean Valjean. 
To this testimony, the counsel could only oppose his client’s 
denial, which was certainly interested : but, even supposing 
that he was the convict Jean Mathieu, did that prove he was 
the apple-stealer I it was a presumption at the most, but not 
a proof. The accused, it was true, — ^and his counsel was 
obliged “ in his good faith to allow it, — had adopted % bad 
system of defence ; he insisted on denying everything,— not 
merely the robbeiy, but his quality as convict. A confesaton 
on the latter point would have doubtless been better, and 
gained him the indulgence of his judges; the couxmel had 
advised him to do so, but the prisoner had obstinately re- 
^ed. This was ^ong, but should not his scanty intellect 
be taken into consideration ? This man was visibly stupid ; 
a long mi^ry at the galleys a long wretchedness out of them, 
had brutalized him, etc. etc. ; his defence was bad, but was 



LES MISERABLES 


119 


thai a reason to find him guilty ? The counsel sv'ound up 
by imploring the jury and the court, if the identity of Jean 
Valjean appeared to them proved, to punish him as a criminal 
who had broken his ban, and not apply the fearful chastise- 
ment which falls on the relapsed convict. 

The public prosecutor replied. He congratulated the 
counsel for the defence on his " fairness/' and cleverly took 
advantage of it ; he attacked the prisoner with all the con- 
cessions which his counsel had made. He appeared to allow 
that the prisoner was Jean Valjean, and he therefore was so. 
Who was this Jean Valjean ! Here came a description of a 
monster in human form, etc. The model of this sort of de- 
scription will be found in the recitation of Theramdne, which 
daily renders great services to judicial eloquence. The au- 
dience and the jury quivered," and when the description was 
ended, the public prosecutor went on. ** And it is such a man, 
etc. etc. etc., a vagabond, having no means of existence, etc. 
etc. etc., accustomed through his past life to culpable actions, 
and but little corrected by confinement in the bagne, as is 
proved by the crime committed on Little Gervais, etc. etc. 
etc. — ^it is such a man, who found on the high road with the 
proof of robbery in his hand, and a few paces from the wail 
he had climbed over, denies the fact, the robbery, denies 
everything, even to hiS name and his identity. In addition 
to a hundred proofs to which we will not revert, four wit- 
nesses recognize him, Javert, the upright Inspector of Police, 
and three of his old comrades in ignominy, the convicts 
Brevet, Chenildieu, and Cochepaille. And what does he op- 
pose to this crushing unanimity ? he denies. What hardness 
of heart ! But you will do justice, gentlemen of the jury, 
etc. etc.* etc." 

While the public prosecutor was speaking the prisoner 
listened with open rilouth, and with a sort of amazement in 
which there was certainly some admiration. From time to 
time he slowly moved his head from right to left, and from 
left to right, in a sort of dumb and melancholy protest, with 
which he had contented himself ever since the beginning of 
the trial. The public prosecutor drew the attention of the 
jury to this dull attitude, which was evidently calculated, 
and which denoted, not imbecility, but skill, cunning, and 
the habit of deceiving justice, and .which brought out in full 



120 


LES HISEBABLES 


light the “ profound perverseness ** of this man. He con- 
cluded by reserving the afiair of Little Gervaia, and 'by de- 
manding a severe sentence. The counsel for the defence rose, 
began by complimenting the public prosecutor on his ** ad- 
mirable speech/' and then replied as well as he could, but 
feebly; it was plain that the ground was giving way under 
him. 


The moment for closing the trial had arrived. 

The President, a grave and kind man, began speaking. 
Turning to the prisoner, he requested him to listen to what 
he was about to say, and added : “ You are in a situation 
which should cause you to reflect. The heaviest presump- 
tions are w eighing upon you, and may entail capital punish- 
ment. Prisoner, 1 ask you for the last time to explain your- 
self clearly on the two following facts : In the first place, did 
you, yes or no, climb over the w^all, break a branch, and 
steal apples, that is to say, commit a robbery with escalade ? 
secondly, yes or no, are you the liberated convict, Jean Val- 
jean ^ " 

The prisoner shook his head with a confident air, like a 
man who understands and knows what answ^er he is going to 
make. He opened his mouth, turned to the President, and 
said, — 

** In the first place — 

Then he looked at his cap, looked at the ceiling, and held 
his tongue. 


Prisoner," the public prosecutor said in a stern voice, 
pay attention. You make no answer to the questions that 
are asked you, and your confusion condemns you. It is evi- 
dent that your name is not Chstopmathieu, but Jean Valjean, 
at first concealed under the name of Jean Mathieu, your 
mother 8 name ; that you went to Auvergne ; that your birth- 
place a JaveroUes, and that you are % wood-cutter. It 
u you stole ripe apples by clambering over 

ajjall, and the gentlemen of the jury will apprecia^ the 


hurriedly rose 

when the public prosecutor had finished, and eiclaimed.- 

fcnf T I wmted to say. 

but I could not thmk of it at first I heve stolen nothing. 

I am a man who do not eat every day. I was comiog fawn 



LES HISERABLES 


121 


Ailly* and, walking after a flood, I found a branch with applet 
lying on the ground, and picked it up, little thinking it would 
bring me into trouble. I have been in prison and bullied 
ior three months, and after that people talk against me, I 
don’t know why, and say to me. Answer. The gendarme, 
who is a good-hearted fellow, nudges me with his elbow, and 
says. Why don't you answer ! I cannot explain myself, for 
1 am no scholar, but only a poor man. I have not stolen, I 
only picked up things lying on the ground. You talk about 
Jean Valjean and Jean Mathieu. 1 do not know these persons, 
they are countrymen. I used to work for Monsieur Baloup, 
Bo^evard de l'H6pital, and my name is Champmathieu. 
You are a very clever fellow to tell me where I was born, 
for I don’t know. 1 believe that my father and mother 
were persons who went about the roads, but I do not know 
it after all. When I was a boy I was called little, and now 
I am called old. I have been in Auvergne. I have been 
at FaveroUes. Well, hang it, may not a man have been at 
those two places without having been to the galleys ? I tell 
you that I have not stolen, and that my name is Champ- 
mathieu. You will vex me in the end with your nonsense. 
Why is eve^body so spiteful against me ? " 

The public prosecutor, who had not sat down, here ad- 
dressed the President. • 

“ In the presence of these confused but very clear denials 
on the part of the prisoner, who would like to pass for an 
idiot, but will not succeed, we warn him, — ^we request that 
it may please you, sir, and the court to recall the prisoners 
Brevet, Cochepaille, and Chenildieu, and Police Inspector 
Javert, and examine them a^in as to the identity of the 
prisoner * with Jean Valjean." 

" I must remark," said the President, " that Inspector 
Javert, having been Recalled to his duties at a neighbouring 
town, left the hall and the town immediately after giving his 
evidence; we authorised him to do so with the consent of 
the public prosecutor and the counsel for the defence." 

‘‘ Perfectly correct, sir," the public prosecutor continued. 

In the absence of Inspector Javert, I believe it my duty to 
remind the gentlemen of the jury of the statement he made 
here a few hours ago. His evidence is as follows : I do not 
require moral presumptions and material proof to contradict 



122 


LES MISBBABLES 


‘the piisoner*B assertions, for I recognise him perfectly. This 
mans name is not Champmathieu, he is Jean ValjeaiH an ex- 
convict of a very violent and formidable character. It was 
with great reluctance that he was liberated when he com- 
pleted his time. He had nineteen years' hard labour for 
qualified robbery, and made five or six attempts to escape. 
In addition to the Little Qervais robbery and the larceny of 
the apples, I also suspect him of a robbery committed in the 
house of his Grandeur the late Bishop of D . I fre- 

quently saw him when I was assistant-gaoler at Toulon, and 
I repeat that I recognize him perfectly.' " 

Such a precise declaration seemed to produce a lively 
effect on the audience and the jury, and the public prosecutor 
wound up by requesting that the other three witnesses should 
be brought in and re-examined. The President gave an order 
to an usher, and a moment after the door of the witness-room 
opened. The usher, accompanied by a gendarme, brought 
in the prisoner Brevet. The ex-convict Brevet wore the 
black and grey jacket of the central prisons ; he was a man 
of about sixty years of age, who had the face of a business 
man and the look of a rogue. He had become a sort of gaoler 
in the prison to which new offences had brought him, and 
was a man of whom the officials said, ** He tries to make him- 
self useful." • 

“ Brevet,” said the President, as you have undergone a 
degrading punishment, you cannot be sworn." 

Brevet looked down humbly. 

“Still,” the President continued, “there may remain, by 
the permission of Heaven, a feeling of honour and equity 
even in the man whom the lavf has degraded, and it is to that 
feeling I appeal in this decisive hour. The moment is a 
solemn one, and there is still time for you to retract, if you 
believe that you are mistaken. Prison^, stand up. Brevet, 
look at the prisoner. Tell us on your soul and conscience 
whether you still persist in recognising this man as your old 
mate at the galleys, Jean Valjean.” 

Brevet looked at the prisoner, and then turned to the 
court. 

“ Yes, sir, I was the first who recognized him, and I ad- 
here to it. This man is Jean Yaljean, who came to Toulon 
bi 1796 and left in 1816. 1 came out a year later. He looks 



LES HISEBABLES 


123 


like a brute now, but he was cunning at the hulks. I recog-’ 
nize hirti positively.” 

Chenildieu was next brought in, a convict for life, as was 
shown by his red jacket and green cap. He was serving his 
time at Toulon, whence he had been fetched for this trial. 
The President addressed him much as he had done Brevet, 
begged him to reflect, and asked him if he still persisted in 
recognizing the prisoner. Chenildieu burst into a laugh : 

“ I should think I do ! why, we were fastened to the same 
chain for five years. So you are sulky, old fellow ? ” 

“Go and sit down,” said the President. 

The usher brought in Cochepaille. This second convict 
for life, who had been fetched from the galleys and was dressed 
in red like Chenildieu, was a peasant of Lourdes and a semi- 
bear of the Pyrenees. He was one of those wretched men 
whom nature has sketched as wild beasts, and whom society 
finishes as galley-slaves. The President asked him, like 
the two others, whether he still persisted, without any hesi- 
tation or trouble, in recognizing the man standing before 
him. 

“It is Jean Valjean,” said Cochepaille. “He was nick- 
named Jean the Jack, because he was so strong.” 

Each of the affirmations of these three men, evidently 
made in good faith, had aroused in the audience a murmur 
of evil omen for the prisoner. The prisoner himself listened 
to them with that amazed face which, according to the in- 
dictment, was his principal means of defence. The President 
addressed him, — 

“You have heard the evidence, prisoner; have you any 
answer to make ? ” * 

He answered, — 

“ I say — famous ! ” 

A laugh broke out in the audience and almost affected 
the jury. It was plain that the man was lost. 

“TTshers,” said the President, “produce silence in the 
court: I am about to sum up.” 

^ At this moment there was a movement by the President’s 
side : and a voice could be heard exclaiming, — 

“ Brevet, Chenildieu, and Cochepaille, look this way.'^ All 
those who heard the voice felt chilled to the heart, for it was 
so lamentable and terrible. All eyes were turned in the 



124 


LES MISERABLES 


direction whence it came : a man seated among the privileged 
audience behind the court had risen, pushed open the gate 
that separated the judges* bench from the public court, and 
stepped down. The President, the public prosecutor, M. 
Bamatabois, twenty persons, recognized him, and exclaimed 
simultaneously, “ Monswur Madeleine ! " 

It was he in truth ; the clerk's lamp lit up his face ; he 
held his hat in his hand, there was no disorder in his attire, 
and his coat was carefully buttoned. He was very pale and 
trembled slightly ; and his hair, which had been grey when 
he arrived at Arras, was now perfectly white — it had turned 
so during the hour he had passed in the court. Every head 
was raised, the sensation was indescribable, and there was a 
momentary hesitation among the spectators. The voice had 
been so poignant, the man standing there seemed so calm, that 
at first they did not understand, and asked each other who it 
was that had spoken. They could not believe that this 
tranquil man could have uttered that terrific cry. This 
indecision lasted but a few moments. Before the President 
ai^ the public prosecutor could say a word, before the gen- 
darmes and ushers could make a move, the man, whom aU 
still called at this moment M. Madeleine, had walked up to 
the witnesses, Brevet, Chenildieu, and Cochepaille. 

“ Do you not recognize me ? " he *asked them. 

All three stood amazed, and gave a nod to show that they 
did not know him, and Cochepaille, who was intimidated, 
gave a military salute. M. Madeleine turned to the jury and 
the court, and said in a gentle voice, — 

“ Gentlemen of the jury, acquit the prisoner. Monsieur 
le President, have me arrested? The man you are seeking is 
not he, for — I am Jean Valjean.** 

Not a breath was drawn, — ^the first commotion of aston- 
ishment had been succeeded by a sepulShral silence ; all felt 
that species of reli^ous terror which seizes on a crowd when 
something grand is being accomplished. The President's 
face, however, displayed sympathy and sorrow ; he exchanged 
a rapid look with the public prosecutor, and a few words in 
a low voice with the assessors. He then turned to the spec- 
tators, and asked with an accent which all understood,— 
“ Is there a medical man present 1 " 

The public prosecutor then said, — 



LBS MISBBABLES 


125 


** Gentlemen of the jury. The strange and unexpected in- ' 
cident which has disturbed the trial inspires us, as it does 
yourselves, with a feeling which we need not express. You 
all know, all least by reputation, the worthy M. Madeleine, 

Mayor of M . If there be a medical man here, we join 

with the President in bogging him to attend to M. Madeleine 
and remove him to his house.*' 

M. Madeleine did not allow the public prosecutor to con- 
clude, but interrupted him with an accent full of gentleness 
and authority : 

** I thank you, sir, but I am not mad, as you will soon 
see. You were on the point of committing a great error. 
I am accomplishing a duty, for I am the hapless convict, and 
I am telling you the truth. What I am doing at this moment 
God above is looking at, and that is sufficient for me. You 
can seize me, for here I am ; and yet I did my best. I hid 
myself under a name, I became rich, I became Mayor, and 
I wished to get back among honest men, but it seems that 
this is impossible. There are many things I cannot tell you, 
as I am not going to describe my life to you, for one day 
it will be known. It is true that I robbed the Bishop ; also 
true that I robbed Little Gervais, and they were right in 
telling you that Jean Yaljean was a dangerous villain — 
though, perhaps all the*fault did not lie with him. Listen^ 
gentlemen of the court. A man so debased as myself cannot 
remonstrate with Providence, or give advice to society ; but 
I wU say that the infamy from which I sought to emerge is 
an injurious thing, and the galleys make the convict. Before 
I went to Toulon I was a poor peasant, with but little in- 
telligence, but the galleys changed me. I was stupid, and I 
became wicked. At a later date indulgence and goodness 
saved me, in the same way as severity had destroyed me. 
But, forgive me, you*cannot understand what I am saying. 
At my house the two-franc piece I stole seven years ago from 
Little Gervais will be found among the ashes in the fire- 
place. I have nothing more to add, so seize me. Good 
Heavens ! the public prosecutor shakes his head. You say 
M. Madeleine has gone mad, and do not believe me. This is 
afflicting; at least do not condemn this man. What! these 
three do not recognize me ! Oh, I wish that Javert were 
here, for he would recognize me i ** 



126 


LES MISERABLES 


No pen could render the benevolent and sombre melan- 
choly of the accent which accompanied these words. He 
then turned to the three convicts, — 

“ Well, I recognize you. Brevet, do you not remember 
me ? '' He broke off, hesitated for a moment, and said, — 
“ Can you call to mind the chequered braces you used to 
wear at the galleys ? " 

Brevet gave a start of surprbe and looked at him from 
head to foot in terror. He continued, — 

“ Chenildieu, you have a deep burn in your right shoulder, 
because you placed it one day in a pan of charcoal in order 
to elTace the three letters, T. F. P., which, however, are still 
visible. Answer me — ^is it so ? ” 

" It is true," said Chenildieu. . 

Cochepaille, you have near the hollow of your left arm 
a date made in blue letters with burnt gunpowder ; the date 
is that of the Emperor's landing at Cannes, March 1, 1815. 
Turn up your sleeve." 

Cochepaille did so, and every eye was turned to his bare 
arm ; a gendarme brought up a lamp, and the date \Yas there. 
The unhappy man turned to the audience and the judges, 
with a smile which to this day affects those who saw it. It 
was the smile of triumph, but it was also the smile of de- 
spair. * 

“ You see plainly,” he said, “ that I am Jean Valjean.” 
In the hall there were now neither judges, accusers, nor 
gendarmes ; there were only fixed eyes and heaving hearts. 
It was evident that they had Jean Valjean before them. 
The appearance of this man had been sufficient to throw a 
bright light on an afiair which was so obscure a moment 
previously: without needing any explanation, the entire 
crowd understood, as if through a sort of electric revelation, 
at once and at a glance the simple and magnificent story of a 
man who denounced himself in order that another man might 
not be condemned in his place. It was an impression wmch 
quickly passed away, but at the moment was irresistible. 

“ I will not occupy the time of the court longer,” Jean 
Valjean continued ; “ I shall go away, as I am not arrested, 
for I have several things to do. The public prosecutor knows 
who I am, he knows where I am going, and he will order me 
to be arrested when he thinks proper.” 



LES MISBBABLES 


12T 


He walked towards the door, and not a voice was raised, * 
not an %rm stretched forth to prevent him. All fell back, 

, for there was something divine in this incident, which causes 
the multitude to recoil and make way for a single man. He 
slowly walked on ; it was never known who opened the door, 
but it is certain that he found it opened when he reached it. 
When there, he turned and said, — 

“ I am at your orders, sir,” 

Then he addressed the audience. 

“ I presume that all of you consider me worthy of pity ? 
Great God, when I think of what I was on the point of doing, 
I consider myself worthy of envy. Still I should have pre- 
ferred that all this had not taken place.” 

He went out, and the door was closed as it had been opened, 
for men who do certain superior deeds are always sure of 
being served by some one in the crowd. Less than an hour 
after, the verdict of the jury acquitted Champmathieu, and 
Champmathicu, who vras at once set at liberty went away 
in stupefaction, believing all the men mad, and not at all 
comprehending this vision. 


CHAPTER VI 

Day was beginning to dawn. Fantine had passed a sleep- 
less and feverish night, though full of bright visions, and 
towards morning fell asleep. Sister Simplice, who was watch- 
ing, took advantage of this slumber to go and prepare a fresh 
dose of bark. The worthy sister had been for some time in 
the surgery, stooping over her dTugs and bottles, and looking 
carefully at them, on account of the mist which dawn spreads 
over objects. All at once she turned her head and gave a 
slight shriek. M. Madeleine had entered silently, and was 
standing before her. 

“ Is it you, sir ? '' she exclaimed. 

He answered in a low voice, 

How is the poor creature ! ** 

'' Not so bad just at present, but she has frightened us 
terribly.” 

She explained to him what had occurred, how Fantine had 
been very ill the previous day, but was now better, because 



128 


LES HISERABLES 


she believed that he had gone to Montfeimeil to fetch her 
child. The sister did not dare question him, but she could 
see from his looks that he had not been there. 

“ All that is well/' he said. “ You did right in not un- 
deceiving her.” 

“ Yes,” the sister continued, “ but now that she is going 
to see you, sir, and does not see her child, what^re we to 
tell her ? ” 

He remained thoughtful for a moment. 

” God will inspire us,” he said. 

It was now bright day in the room, and it lit up M. Made- 
leine's face. The sister raised her eyes by chance. 

“ Good gracious, sir,” she exclaimed, “ what can have hap- 
pened to you ? Your hair is quit6 white.” 

” What ! ” he said. 

Sister Simplice had no mirror, but she took from a drawer 
a small looking-glass which the infirmary doctor employed to 
make sure that a patient was dead. M. Madeleine took this 
glass, looked at his hair, and said, ” So it is.” He said it 
carelessly, and as if thinking of something else, and the sister 
felt chilled by some unknown terror of which she caught a 
glimpse in all this. He asked, — 

“ Can I see her 1 ” 

” Will you not procure her child &amp;r her, sir ? ” the sister 
said, hardly daring to ask the question. 

** Of course ; but it will take at least two or three days.'* 

” If she were not to see you till then, sir,” the sister con- 
tinued timidly, “ she would not know that you had returned ; 
it would be easy to keep her quiet, and when her child arrived, 
she would naturally think that you had returned with it. That 
would not be telling a falsehood.” 

M. Madeleine appeared to reflect for a few moments, and 
then said with his calm gravity, — • 

” No, sister, I must sec her, for I am possibly pressed for 
time.” 

In that case you can go in, sir, though she is asleep.” 

He then entered Fantine's room, went up to the bed, and 
opened the curtains. She was asleep ; her breath issued from 
her chest with that tragic sound peculiar to those diseases 
which crush poor mothers who sit up at nights by the side 
of their sleeping child for whom there is no hope. But this 



LES HISBBABLES 


129 


. painful breathing scaroe disturbed an ineffable serenity spread 
over her face, which transfigured her in her sleep. Her 
pallor had become whiteness ; her cheeks were carnations. 
Her long, fair eyelashes, the sole beauty that remained of 
her virginity and youth, quivered, though remaining closed. 
Her whole person trembled as if she had wings which were 
on the •point of expanding and bearing her away. To see her 
thus^ no one could have believed that she was in an almost 
hopeless state, for she resembled rather a woman who is about 
to fly away than one who is going to die. The branch, when 
the hand approaches to pluck the flowers, quivers and seems 
at once to retire and advance. The human body undergoes 
something like this quiver when the moment arrives for the 
mysterious fingers of death to pluck the soul. 

M. Madeleine stood for some time motionless near this 
bed, looking first at the patient and then at the crucifix, as 
he had done two months previously, on the day when he 
came for the first time to see her in this asylum. They were 
both in the same attitude, — she sleeping, he praying ; but in 
those two months her hair had turned grey, and his white. 
The sister had not come in with him : he was standing by 
the bed-side, finger on lip, as if there were some one in the 
room whom he was bidding to be silent. She opened her 
eyes, saw him, and said calmly and with a smile, — 

“ And Cosette ? ” 

She gave no start of surprise, no start of joy, for she was 
joy itself. The simple question — And Cosette ? " was asked 
in such profound faith, with so much certainty, with such an 
utter absence of anxiety and doubt, that' he could not find a 
word to say. She continued* — 

“ I knew you were there, for though I was asleep, I saw. 
I have seen you for a long time, and have been looking after 
you all night ; youVere in a glory, and had around you all 
sorts of heavenly faces.” 

She looked up to the crucifix. 

“ But,” she continued, ” tell me where Cosette is 1 why 
was she not laid in my bed so that I could see her directly I 
woke ? ” 

He answered something mechanically which he could 
never remember. Luckily the physician, who had been sent 
for, came to M. Madeleine’s assistance. 

E 



130 LES MISERABLE3 

' My dear girl,” said the physician, “ calm yourself, your 
child is here.” » 

Fantine's eyes sparkled, and covered her whole face with 
brightness ; she clasped her hands with an expression which 
contained all the violence and all the gentleness a prayer can 
have simultaneously. 

Oh,” she exclaimed, ” bring her to me ! ” 

Touching maternal illusion ! Cosette was still to her the 
little child who must be carried. 

“ Not yet,” the physician continued, “ not at this moment ; 
the sight of your own child would agitate you and do you 
harm. You must get w^ell first.” 

She impetuously interrupted him,- 

“ But I am well ! I tell you I am w’cll. I insist on seeing 
my child.” 

‘‘ There, you sec,” the physician said, “ how violent you 
are ! When you grow reasonable, I will bring her my- 
self.” 

The poor mother hung her head. 

“ Doctor, 1 ask your pardon, I sincerely ask your pardon. 
I am not angry, for I know very well that I am going to be 
happy. The whole night I have seen white things and 
smiling faces. The doctor will bring me Cosette when he 
likes ; I have no fever now, because I %.m cured ; I feel that 
there is nothing the matter with me, but I will behave as if 
I were ill, and not stir, so as to please these ladies. When 
you see that I am quite calm, you will say, We must give 
her her child.” 

M. Madeleine had seated himself in a chair by the bed- 
side ; she turned to him, visiWy making an effort to appear 
calm and very good,” as she said in that weakness of illness 
which resembles childhood, in order that, on seeing her so 

E eaceful, there might be no difficulty iif bringing Cosette to 
er. Still, while checking herself, she could not refrain from 
asking M. Madeleine a thousand questions. 

“ Have you had a pleasant journey, sir 1 Oh, how kind 
it was of you to go and fetch her for me I Only tell me how 
she is. Did she stand the journey well ? Alas ! she will 
not recognize, she will have forgotten me in all this time, poor 
darling ! Had she got clean underclothing ? did those The- 
nazdiers keep her clean ? Oh I how I should like to see her! 



LES MISEEABLES 


131 


Did you not find her very pretty, sir ? You must have been 
very cpld in the stage-coach ? Can she not be brought here, 
if only for a moment ? You could do it if you liked, as you 
are the Mayor.” 

lie took her hand and said : “ Cosette is lovely, she is well, 
you will see her soon, but calm yourself. You speak too 
eagerly,, and put your arms out of bed, which will make you 
cough.” 

In fact, a fit of coughing interrupted Fantine at nearly 
every word. She did not object, she feared lest she had in- 
jured the confidence she had wished to inspire, by some too 
impassioned entreaties, and she began talking of indifferent 
matters. 

M. Madeleine still held her hand, and was looking at her 
anxiously ; it was evident that he had come to tell her some- 
thing at which he now hesitated. The physician had left, 
and Sister Simplice alone remained near them. “ I can hear 
her, I can hear her ! " She held out her arms to command 
silence, held her breath, and began listening with ravishment. 
A child was playing in the yard, and probably belonged to 
one of the workmen. It was one of those accidents which 
constantly occur, and seem to form part of the mysterious 
misc-en-scene of mournful events. The child, a little girl, 
was running about te warm herself, laughing and singing 
loudly. Alas ! what is there in which children's games are 
not mingled ? 

“ Oh I ” Fantine continued, 'tis my Cosette ! I recognize 
her voice. How happy we are going to be ! We will have a 
small garden, for M. Madeleine has promised me that. My 
child will play in the garden.# She must know her alphabet 
by this. time, and I w-ill teach her to spell. She w'ill chase 
butterflies, and I shall look at her. Then, she will take her 
first communion ; ht me see when that will be.” 

All at once she ceased speaking, and this made M. Made- 
leine raise his head mechanically. Fantine had beconve fright- 
ful to look at. She no longer spoke, she no longer breathed ; 
she was half sitting up, and her thin shoulder projected from 
her night-gown ; her face, radiant a moment previously, was 
hard, and she seemed to be fixing her eyes, dilated by terror, 
upon something formidable that stood at the other end of 
the room- 



132 


LES MISERABLES 


• Great Heaven ! ” he exclaimed, ** what is the matter 
with you, Fantine ? ” 

She did not answer, she did not remove her eyes from the 
object, whatever it might be, which she fancied she saw ; but 
she touched his arm with one hand, and with the other made 
him a sign to look behind him. He turned back and saw Javert. 

This is w'hat had occurred. Half-past twelve was •striking 
when M. Madeleine left the assize court of Arras ; and he 
returned to the hotel just in time to start by the mail cart in 
which he had booked liis place. A little before six a.m. he 

reached M , and his first care was to post the letter for 

M. Lafitte, and then proceed to the infirmary and see Fan- 
tine. Still, he had scarce quitted the court ere the public 
prosecutor, recovering from his stupor, rose on his legs, de- 
plored the act of mania on the park of the honourable Mayor of 

M , declared that his convictions were in no way modified 

by this strange incident, which would be cleared up at a later 
date, and demanded, in the interim, the conviction of this 
Champmathieu, evidently the true Jean Valjean. The per- 
sistency of the public prosecutor was visibly in contradiction 
with the feelings of all, — the public, the court, and the jury. 
The counsel for the defence had little difficulty in refuting 
his arguments, and cstablisliing that through the revelations 
of M. Madeleine, that is to say, the real Jean Valjean, cir- 
cumstances were entirely altered, and the jury had an inno- 
cent man before them. The President in his summing-up 
supported the defence, and the jury in a few moments ac- 
quitted Champmathieu. Still, the public prosecutor wanted 
a Jean Valjean ; and, as he no longer had Champmathieu, 
ho took Madeleine. Immediately after Champmathieu was 
acquitted, he had a conference with the President as to the 

necessity of seizing the person of the Mayor of M , and 

after the first emofion had passed, the President raised but 
few objections. Justice must take its course. The order of 
arrest was consequently made out, and the prosecutor at 

once sent it ofi by express to M , addressed to Inspector 

Javert, who, as we know, returned home immediately after 
he had given his evidence. 

Javert was getting up at the moment when the messenger 
handed him the order of arrest and the warrant. The order 
of arrest was thus conceived : '* Inspector Javert will appre- 



LES MISEBABLES 


133 


Lend Monsieur Madeleine, Mayor of M , who in this 

day's Session was recognized as the liberated convict, Jean 
Valjean." Any one who did not know Javert, and had seen 
him at the moment when he entered the infirmary ante-room, 
could not have guessed what was taking place, but would 
have considered him to be as usual. He was cold, calm, 
serious,* his grey hair was smoothed down on his temples, 
and he went up the stairs with his usual slowness. But any 
one who was well acquainted with him, and examined him 
closely, would have shuddered ; the buckle of his leathern 
stock, instead of sitting in the nape of his neck, was under 
his left ear. This revealed an extraordinary agit a tion. Javert 
was a complete character, without a crease in his duty or in 
his uniform : methodical with criminals, and rigid wfith his 
coat buttons. He had merely fetched a corporal and four 
men from the guardhouse close by, left them in the yard, 
and had Fantine's room pointed out to him by the unsus- 
pecting porteress, who was accustomed to see policemen ask 
for the Mayor. 

On reaching Fantine's room, Javert turned the key, pushed 
the door with the gentleness cither of a sick-nurse or a spy, 
and stood in the half-opened door with his hat on his head, 
and his left hand thrust into the breast of his great coat, 
which was buttoned to the chin. Under his elbow could be 
seen the leaden knob of his enormous cane, which was con- 
cealed behind his back. All at once Fantine raised her eyes, 
saw him, and made M. Madeleine turn. At the moment 
when Madeleine's glance met Javert's, the latter, without 
stirring or drawing near, became fearful. The certainty of 
at length holding Jean ValjeSn caused all he had in his soul 
to appear on his countenance, and the stirred-up sediment 
rose to the surface. Jave«rt's satisfaction was displayed in 
his sovereign attitiide, and the deformity of triumph was 
spread over his narrow forehead. 

Javert, though terrifying, was not ignoble. Probity, sin- 
cerity, candour, conviction, and the idea of duty, are things 
which, by deceiving themselves, may become hideous, but 
which, even if hideous, remain grand ; they are virtues which 
have but one vice, error. 

Fantine had not seen Javert since the day when the Mayor 
tore her out of his clutches, and her sickly brain could form 



134 


LES MISERABLES 


no other thought but that he had come to fetch her. She 
could not endure his frightful face : she felt herself dying. 
She buried her face in her hands, and cried with agony, — 
Monsieur Madeleine, save me ! 

Jean Valjean — we will not call him otherwise in future — 
had arisen, and said to Fantine in his gentlest, calmest voice, — 

“ Do not be alarmed : he has not come for you/' 

Then he turned to Javert and said, — 

“ I know what you want.” 

And Javert answered, — 

” Come, make haste — ” 

There was s«)niething savage and frenzied in the accent 
that accompanied these words. While speaking thus, he did 
not advance : he merely darted, at Jean Valjean the look 
which he threw out as a grapple, and with which he violently 
drew wretches to him. It was this look which Fantine had 
felt pierce to her marrow two months before. On hearing 
Javert's roar, Fantine opened her eyes again ; but the Mayor 
was present, so what had she to fear? Javert walked into 
the middle of the room and cried, — 

“ Well, are you coming ? ” 

The unhappy girl looked around her. No one was present 
but the nun and the Mayor ; to whoyi, then, could this hu- 
miliating remark be addressed ? only to herself. She shud- 
dered. Then she saw an extraordinary thing, so e.vtraordin- 
ary that nothing like it had ever appeared in the darkest 
delirium of fever. She saw the policeman Javert seize the 
Mayor by the collar, and she saw the Mayor bow his head. 
It seemed to her as if the end of the world had arrived. 

“ Moasicur le Maire ! ” Fanfine screamed. 

Javert burst into a laugh, that frightful laugh which’ showed 
all his teeth. 

“ There is no Monsieur le Maire here.” 

Jean Valjean did not attempt to remove the hand that 
grasped his collar ; he said, — 

‘‘ Javert — ” 

Javert interrupted him : “ Call me Monsieur the In- 
spector.” 

“ I should like to say a word to you in private, sir," Jean 
Valjean continued. 

Speak up,” Javert answered, " people talk aloud to me.” 



LES MISERABLES 136 

" It is a request I have to make of you, but it must only 
be heard by yourself — 

“ What do I care for that t I am not listening ! 

Jean Valjean turned to him and said rapidly, and in a 
very low voice, — 

“ Grant me three days ! three days to go and fetch this 
unhappy woman's child ! I will pay whatever you ask, and 
you can accompany me if you like." 

“ You must be joking," Javert cried. “ Why, I did not 
think you such a fool ! You ask three days of me that you 
may bolt ! You say that it is to fetch this girl’s brat ! ah, 
ah, that is rich, very rich." 

Fantine had a tremor. 

“ My child," she exclaimed, “ to go and fetch my child ? 
Then she is not here ! Sister, answer me, — where is Cosette ? 
I want my child ! Monsieur Madeleine, M. le Maire ! " 

Javert stamped his foot. 

“ There's the other beginning now ; will you be quiet, 
wench ? A devil's own country, where galley-slaves are 
magistrates, and street- walkers are nursed like countesses. 
Weil, well, it will be altered now, and it's time for it." 

He looked fixedly at Fantine, and added, as he took a 
fresh hold of Jean Valjean's cravat, shirt, and coat 
collar, — • 

“ I tell you there is no M. Madeleine and no Monsieur le 
Maire, but there is a robber, a brigand, a convict of the name 
of Jean Valjean, and I've got him, — ^that's what there is." 

Fantine rose, supporting herself on her stiffened arms and 
hands ; she looked at Jean Valjean ; she looked at Javert ; 
she looked at the nun ; she opened her mouth as if to speak, 
but there was a rattle in her throat, her teeth chattered, she 
stretched out her arms, convulsively opening her hands, clutch- 
ing like a drowning %nan, and then suddenly fell back on the 
pillow. Her head struck against the bed-head, and fell back 
on her breast with gaping mouth and open eyes ; she was 
dead. Jean Valjean laid his hand on that one of Javert'a 
which held him, opened it as if it had been a child’s hand, 
and then said to Javert, — 

“ You have killed this woman." 

" Enough of this," Javert shouted furiously. ** I am not 
here to listen to abuse, so you can save your breath. There 



136 LES MISEBABLES 

is a guard down below, so come quickly, or I shall handcuff 
you/^ 

There was in the corner of the room an old iron bedstead 
in a bad condition, which the sisters used as a sofa when they 
were sitting up at night. Jean Valjean went to this bed, 
tore off in a twinkling the head piece, an easy thing for 
muscles like his, seized the supporting bar, and looked at 
Javert. Javert recoiled to the door. Jean Valjean, with tlie 
iron bar in his hand, walked slowly up to Fantine's bed ; 
when he reached it, he turned and said to Javert in a scarcely 
audible voice, — 

“ I would advise you not to disturb me just at present.” 

One thing is certain, — Javert trembled. He thought of 
going to fetch the guard, but Jean Valjean might take ad- 
vantage of the moment to escape." He, therefore, remained, 
clutched his stick by the small end, and leaned against the 
door-post, without taking his eyes off Jean Valjean. The 
latter rested his elbow on the bedstead, and his forehead on 
his hand, and began contemplating Fantine, who lay motion- 
less before him. He remained thus, absorbed and silent, and 
evidently not thinking of anything else in the world. Onhia 
face and in his attitude there was only an indescribable pity. 
After a few minutes passed in this reverie, he stooped over 
Fantine and spoke to her in a low •voice. What did this 
outcast man say to this dead woman 1 No one on earth 
heard the words, but did that dead woman hear them ? There 
are touching illusions, which are perhaps sublime realities. 
One thing is indubitable, that Sister Simplice, the sole wit- 
ness of what took place, has frequently declared that the 
moment when Jean Valjean whispered in Fantine's ear, she 
distinctly saw an ineffable smile playing round her pale lips 
and in her vague eyeballs, which were full of the amazement 
of the tomb. Jean Valjean took Fantine^ head in his hands, 
and laid it on the pillow, as a mother might have done to a 
child. Then he tied the strings of her night-gown, and thrust 
her hair under her cap. When this was done, he closed her 
eyes. Fantine's face at this moment seemed strangelv illu- 
mined, for death is the entrance into brilliant light. Pan- 
tine’s hand was hanging out of bed ; Jean Valjean knelt dovm 
by this hand, gently raised and kissed it. Then be rose and 
turned to Javert,— 



LES MISEBABLES 


137 


IJow I am at your service." 

Javert placed Jean Valjean in the town gaol. The arrest 
of M. Madeleine produced an extraordinary commotion in 

M , but it is sad to have to say that nearly everybody 

abandoned him on hearing that he was a galley-slave. In 
less than two hours all the good he had done was forgotten, 
and he was only a galley-slave. It is but fair to say, though, 
that they did not yet know the details of the affair at Aras. 

It is thus that the phantom which called itself M. Made- 
leine faded away at M ; only three or four persons in 

the whole town remained faithful to his memory, and his old 
servant was one of them. On the evening of the same day 
this worthy old woman was sitting in her lodge, still greatly 
startled, and indulging in sad thoughts. The factory had 
been closed all day, the gates were bolted, and the street was 
deserted. There was no one in the house but the two nuns, 
who were watching by Fantine's body. Towards the hour 
when M. Madeleine was wont to come in, the worthy por- 
teress rose mechanically, took the key of M. Madeleine's 
bed-room from a drawer, and the candlestick which he used 
at night to go up-stairs ; then she hung the key on the nail 
from which he usually took it, and placed the candlestick by 
its side, as if she expected him. Then she sat down again 
and began thinking. The poor old woman had done all this 
unconsciously. She did not break off her reverie for two or 
three hours, and then exclaimed, “ Only think of that ! 1 
have hung his key on the nail ! ” 

At this moment the window of the .lodge was opened, a 
hand was passed through the opening, which seized the key 
and lit the candle by hers. The porteress raised her eyes, and 
stood with gaping mouth, but she repressed the cry wUch was 
in her throat ; for sj^e recognized this hand, this arm, this coat- 
sleeve as belonging to M. Madeleine. It was some minutes 
ere she could speak for she “ was struck," as she said afterwards 
when describing the adventure. 

“ Good gracious, M. le Maire," she at length exclaimed, ‘‘ I 
fancied — " 

“ That I was in prison ? " he said. “ I was so, but I pulled 
out a bar, leapt out, and here I am. I am going up to my 
room ; go and fetch Sister SimpUce, who doubtless is by the 
&lt;side of that poor woman*" 



138 


LBS MISERABLES 


It was never known how he manajjed to get into th^ yard 
without having the gate opened. He always carried about 
him a master-key, which opened a little side door, but he must 
have been searched and this key taken from him. This 
point was not cleared up. He went up the stairs that led to 
his room, and on reaching the landing, left the candle on the 
top stair, closed his w^indow and shutters, and then entered 
the room with the candle. This precaution was useful, for it 
will be remembered that his window could be noticed from 
the street. No trace of disorder remained, for the porteress 
** had done liis room ; '' but she had picked out of the ashes 
and laid neatly on the table the two iron ends of the stick, and 
the forty-sous piece, which was blackened by the fire. He 
took a sheet of paper, on w'hich he wrote, “ This is the two- 
franc piece stolen from Little Gervais, to which I alluded in 
court,'' and he laid the coin on the paper, so that it should be 
the first thing seen on entering the room. He took from a 
drawer an old shirt, which he tore up, and wrapped the two 
candlesticks in the rags. Still, he displayed no baste or agita- 
tion, and while wrapping up the candlesticks he ate a piece of 
black bread — probably the prison bread which he took with 
him on his escape. There were two gentle taps at the 
door. , 

It was Sister Simplice ; she was pale, her eyes were red, and 
the candle she held shook in her hand. In the emotions of 
this day the nun had become a woman again ; she had wept, 
and w'as trembling. Joan Valjean had just finished writing 
some lines on a piece. of paper, which he handed to the sister, 
with the remark, “ Sister, you \^ll deliver this to the Cure ? ** 

As the paper was open, she turned her eyes on it,^ “ You 
may read it,” he said. 

She read, “ I request the Curd to take ^harge of all that I 
leave here. He will be good enough to defray out of it the 
costs of my trial and the interment of the woman who died 
this morning. The rest will be for the poor.” 

The sister attempted to speak, but could only produce a 
few inarticulate sounds : at length she managed to say,- — 
Do you not wish to see the poor unhappy girl for the last 
time, sir?” 

” No,” he said, “ I am pursued, and if I were to be arrested 
tn her room it would disturb her.” 



LES MISERABLES 


139 


He t scarce said this, ere a great noise broke out on thts 
staircfAse : they heard a tumult of ascending steps, and the 
old servant cry in her loudest and most piercing voice,— 

“ My good sir, I can take my oath that no one has come 
in here all day or all the evening, and I have not left my lodge 
once.’’ 

A man answered, — 

“ But there is a light in that room.” 

They recognized Javert’s voice. The room was so built that 
the door, on being thrown open, concealed a nook in the right- 
hand wall : Jean Valjean blew out the light, and crept into the 
nook. Sister Simplice fell on her knees by the table, as the 
door opened and Javert entered- The nun did not raise her 
eyes : she was praying. On noticing her, Javert halted in 
great confusion. The air he breathed, was reverence for all 
authority. With him, of course, ecclesiastical authority was 
the highest of all. In his eyes, a priest was a spirit that does 
not deceive, a nun a creature who does not sin. On noticing 
the sister, his first movement w%as to withdraw- His second 
impulse was to remain, and at least venture one question. 
Sister Simplice had never told a falsehood in her life : Javert 
was aware of this, and especially revered her for it. 

“ Sister,” he asked, “ are you alone in the room ? ” 

The sister raised h8r eyes and said, “ Yes.” 

“ In that case,” Javert continued, “ I beg your pardon for 
pressing you, but it is my duty, — you have not seen this even- 
ing a person, a man who has escaped and we are seeking — that 
fellow of the name of Jean Valjean. Have you seen him ? ” 

The sister answered “ No.” 

She had told two falsehodfls one upon the other, without 
hesitation, rapidly, as if devoting herself. 

“ I beg your pardon,” said Javert ; and he withdrew with 
a deep bow. • 

Oh, holy woman, it is many years since you w'ere on this 
earth ; may this falsehood be placed to your credit in Paradise ! 

The sister’s assertion was so decisive for Javert, that he 
did not notice the singular fact of the candle just blown out 
and which was still smoking on the table. An hour later a 
man making his way through the fog, was hurrying away from 
M — ^ in the direction of Paris. This man was Jean Valjean ; 
and it was proved, by the testimony of two or three carriers 



140 


LES MISEBABLES 


who met him, that he was carr}'i]ig a bundle and was dressed 
in a blouse. * 

One last word about Fantine. We have all one mother, 
the earth, and Fantine was given back to that mother. The 
Cure thought he was doing his duty, keeping as much money 
as he possibly could out of what Jean Valjean left him for the 
poor. After all, who were the people interested ? — a tjonvict 
and a street-walker : hence he simplified Fantine’s interment, 
and reduced it to what is called the “ public grave.” Fantine 
was therefore interred in the gratis comer of the cemetery 
where the poor are lost. Fortunately God knows where to 
look for a soul. Her tomb resembled her bed. 


CHAPTER VII 

The necessity of our story carries us to the field of Waterloo 
on the evening of the battle. The moon shone brightly, and 
this favoured Bliicher's ferocious pursuit, denounced the trail 
of the fugitives, surrendered this disastrous crowd to the 
Prussian cavalry, and assisted the massacre. Such tragical 
complacency of the night is witnessed at times in catastrophes: 
After the last cannon was fired the plain of Mont St. Jean re- 
mained deserted. The English occupied the French encamp- 
ment, for the usual confirmation of victory is to sleep in the 
beds of the conquered. They established their bivouac a little 
beyond Rossomme, and while the Prussians followed up the 
fugitives, Wellington proceeded to the village of Waterloo, to 
draw up his report for Lord Bathurst. Were ever the Sic voa 
non vobis applicable, it is most certainly to this village of 
Waterloo, which did nothing, and was half a league away from 
the action. Mont St. Jean was cannonaded, Hougomont 
burned, Papclotte burned, Plancenoit burfied, La Hayc Sainte 
carried by storm, and La Belle Alliance witnessed the embrace 
of the two victors ; but these names are scarce known, and 
Waterloo, which did nothing during the battle, has all the 
honour of it. 

About midnight a man was prowling, or rather crawling, 
about the hollow road of Ohain : he was, according to all appear- 
ance, neither English nor French, nor peasant nor soldier, less a 
man than a ghoule, attracted by the smell of the dead, whose 



LES MISBRABLES 


141 


victory was robbery, and who had come to plunder Waterloo, 
lie was dressed in a blouse which looked something like a gown, 
was anxious and daring, and looked behind while he went on- 
wards. Who was this man 1 Night knew probably more ab- 
out him than did day. He had no bag, but evidently capac- 
ious popkets under his blouse. From time to time he stopped, 
examined the plain around him as if to see whether he was 
watched, bent down quickly, disturbed something lying silent 
and motionless on the ground, and then drew himself up again 
and stepped away. His attitude, and his rapid mysterious move- 
ments, made him resemble those twilight larvcB which haunt 
ruins, and which the old Norman legends call “ les alleurs ; 
certain nocturnal fowlers display the same outline on the 
marshes. 

Any one who had attentively examined would have seen 
behind the house which stands at the intersection of the 
Nivelles and Mont St. Jean roads, a sort of small vivandi^e’s 
cart with a tilt of tarpaulin stretched over wicker- w^ork, drawn 
by a hungry-looking, staggering horse, which was nibbling the 
nettles. In this cart, a woman was seated on chests and bun- 
dles, and there was probably some connexion betvrecn this 
cart and the prowler. There was not a cloud in the sky, and 
though the ground may be blood red, the moon remains white ; 
that is the indifference of nature. In the fields branches of 
trees broken by cannon-balls, but still holding on by the bark, 
waved softly in the night breeze. A breath shook the brambles, 
and there was a quiver in the grass that resembled the depart- 
ure of souls. In the distance could be confusedly heard the 
march of the English patrols ^d rounds. Hougomont and La 
Haye §!ainte continued to bum, making one in the west, the 
other in the east, two large bodies of flames, to which were join- 
ed the English biv&lt;viac fires, stretching along the hills on the 
horizon, in an immense semicircle. The scene produced the 
effect of an unfastened ruby necklace with a carbuncle at cither 
end. 

The nocturnal prowler looked around and held a hideous 
review of the dead ; he walked with his feet in the blood. All 
at once he stopped. A few paces before him in the hollow way, 
at the TOint where the pile of dead ended, an open hand, u- 
luimned by the moon, emerged from the heap of men and horses. 
This hand had on one finger something that glittered, and was 



U2 


LES MISERABLES 


a gold ring. The man bent down, and when he rose again, there 
was no longer a ring on this finger. He did not exactly rise ; 
he remained in a savage and shy attitude, turning his back to 
the pile of dead, investigating the horizon, supporting himself 
on his two forefingera, and his head spying over the edge of 
the hollow way. The four paws of the jackal are suited for 
certain actions. Then, making up his mind, he rose, but at 
the same moment he started, for he felt that some one was 
holding him beliind. He turned and foimd that it 'was the 
open hand which had closed and seized the skirt of his coat. 
An honest man would have been frightened, but this one began 
laughing. 

Hilloh ! ” ho said, “ it is only the dead man. I prefer a 
ghost to a gendarme.** 

The hand, liowevor, soon relaxed its hold, for efforts are 
quickly exhausted in the tomb. 

“ Can this dead man be alive 1 ** the marauder continued ; 
“ let me have a look.” 

He bent down again, removed all the obstacles, seized the 
hand, Uberated the head, pulled out the body, and a few minutes 
later dragged an inanimate or at least fainting man into the 
shadow of the hollow way. lie was an officer of cuirassiers 
of a certain rank, for a heavy gold epaulette peeped out from 
under his cuirass. This officer had lost his helmet, and a 
furious sabre cut crossed his face, which was covered with 
blood. He did not appear, however, to have any bones broken, 
and through some fortunate accident, if such a word be possi- 
ble here, the dead had formed an arch over him so as to save 
him from being crushed. His ^cs were closed. He had on 
his cuirass the silver cross of the Legion of Honour, apd the 
prowler tore away this cross, which disappeared in one of the 
gulfs he had under his blouse. After this^ho felt the officer’s 
fob, found a watch, and took it ; then he felt in his pockets, and 
drew from them a purse. When he was at this stage of the 
assistance he was rendering the dying man, the officer opened 
his eyes. 

“ Thanks,” he said, feebly. 

The roughness of the man’s movements, the freshness of the 
night, and the freely inhaled air had aroused him from his 
lethargy. The prowler did not answer, but raised his heed. A 
sound of footsteps could be heard on the plain, it was probably 



LES MISEBABLES 


143 


some patrol approaching. The officer murmured, for there 
was fltill the agony of death in his voice, — 

“ Who won the battle ? ” 

“The English,” the marauder answered. 

The officer continued, — 

“ Feel in my pockets, you will find a purse and a watch, 
which you can take.” 

Though this was already done, the prowler did what was 
requested, and said, — 

“ There is nothing in them.” 

“ I have been robbed,” the officer continued, “ I am sorry 
for it, as I meant the things for you.” 

The footsteps of the patrol became more and more distinct. 
“ Some one is coming,” the marauder said, preparing to go 
away. 

The officer, raising his arm with difficulty, stopped him. 
“ You have saved my life ; who are you ? ” 

The prowler answ^ered rapidly and in a low voice, — “ I be- 
long, like yourself, to the French army, but I must leave you ; 
for if I were caught I should be shot, — have saved your life, 
so now get out of the scrape as you can.”* 

“ What is your rank ? ** 

“ Sergeant.’* 

“ Your name ? ” • 

“ Thenardier.” 

“ I shall not forget that name,” the officer said ; “ and do 
you remember mine ; it is Pontmercy,” 

Having narrated this incident, we will now resume the thread 
of our story. Jean Valjean was recaptured. As our readers 
will probably thank us for passing rapidly over painful details, 
we confine ourselves to the quotation ot tw^o paragraphs pub- 
lished by the newspapers of the day, a few months after the oc- 
currence of the surmising events at M . The first we take 

from the Drapeau BlanCy dated July 25, 1823. 

“ A bailiwick of the Pas de Calais has just been the scene 
of an uncommon event. A man, who was a stranger to the 
department and called M. Madeleine, had some years previ- 
ously revived by a new process an old local trade, the manu- 
facture of jet and black beads. He made his own fortune, and, 
let us add, that of the bailiwick, and in acknowledgment of his 
Bervices he was appointed Mayor. The police discovered that 



144 


LES MISEBABLES 


M. Madeleine was no othei than an ex-convict, who had broken 
his ban, condemned in 1796 for robbery, of the name ot Jean 
Valjean. He has been sent back to the Bagne. It appears 
that prior to his arrest he succeeded in withdrawing from M. 
Lahtte’s a sum of more than half a million, which he had bank- 
ed there, and which it is said that he had honestly acquired by 
his trade. Since his return to Toulon futile efforts have been 
made to discover where this amount is concealed.” 

The second article, which is rather more detailed, is extract- 
cd from the Journal de Paris of the same date : — 

** An ex-convict of the name of Jean Valjean has just been 
tried at the Var assizes, under circumstances which attract at- 
tention. This had succeeded in deceiving the vigilance 

of the police, and had behaved so cleverly as to be made Mayor 
of one of our small towns in the north, where he established 
a rather considerable trade. He was at length unmasked and 
arrested through the indefatigable zeal of the public authori- 
ties. He had, as his concubine, a girl of the town, who died of 
a fit at the moment of his arrest. This scoundrel, who is en- 
dowed with Herculean strength, managed to escape, but three 
or four days later the police again captured him in Paris, at the 
moment when he was entering one of those small coaches 
which run from the capital to the village of Montfermcil (Seine 
et Oise). It is said that he took advantage of these three or 
four days liberty to withdraw from one of our chief bankers 
an amount estimated at six or seven hundred thousand francs, 
according to the indictment he buried it at some spot only 
known to him.self, and it has not been found ; but, however 
this may be, this Jean Valjean h^s just been tried at Var assizes 
for a highway robbery, committed with violence some eight 
years ago upon one of those honest lads, who, as the patriarch 
of Ferney has said in immortal verse,— 

* — De Savoie arrivent tons les atis 

£t dont la main 16 gdrement esauie 

Ces longs canaux engorges par la suie.' 

This bandit made no defence, but it was proved by the skilful 
and eloquent organ of public justice that Jean Valjean was a 
member of a band of robbers in the south. Consequently 
Valjean was found guilty and sentenced to death. The crim- 
inal refused to appeal to the Court of Cassation, but the Eing» 



LES MISERABLES 


145 


in his inexhaustible mercy, deigned to commute his sentence 
into penal servitude for fife. Jean Valjean was immediately 
removed to the galleys at Toulon.” 

It will not be forgotten that Jean Valjean had displayed 

religious tendencies at M , and some of the papers, among 

them the Constitutionnely regarded this commutation as a tri- 
umph of the Priest party. Jean Valjean changed his number 
at Toulon, and was known as 9430. Let as state here, once and 
for all, that with M. Madeleine the prosperity of M dis- 

appeared : all he had foreseen in his night of hesitation and 
fever was realized ; his absence was in tnith the absence of the 
soul. M. Madeleine’s large work-shops were shut up ; the 
buildings fell into a ruinous condition, and the artizans disper- 
sed, some leaving the town, others the trade. 

A very short time after the period when it occurred to the 
police that Jean Valjean, during his four days of liberty, had 
been prowling round Montfermeil, it was noticed in the same 
village that a certain old road-mender of the name of Boula- 
truelle was “ up to his tricks ” in the forest. It was believed 
generally that this Boulatruelle had been to the galleys : he 
was to some extent under police inspection, and as he could 
not find work anywhere, the administration employed him at 
a low wage as mender ti the cross road from Gagny to Lagny. 
This Boulatruelle was a man looked on askance by the villa- 
geois, as he was too respectful, too humble, ready to doff 
his cap to everj^body, trembling and fawning before the gen- 
darmes, and probably allied with the robbers, so it was said, 
and suspected of lurlang about the roads after dark. The only 
thing in his favour was tha# he was a drunkard. 

Thisris what people fancied that they noticed. For some 
time past Boulatruelle had left work at an early hour, and gone 
into the forest with his pick-axe. He was met towards evening 
in the most desolate clearings, in the wildest thickets, appar- 
ently seeking something, and at times digging holes. The old 
women who passed at first took him for Beelzebub, who, ac- 
cording to a Montfermeil superstition, was believed to have 
buried treasure in the forest. Such meetings greatly anfioyed 
Boulatruelle, and hence it was plain that he tried to hide him- 
self, and that there was a mystery in what he was doing. It 
was said in the village, It is clear that the fiend has made his 



146 


LES MISEBABLES 


appearance. Boulatruelle saw him, and is seeking ; well, he is 
cunning enough to pocket Lucifer’s treasure.” The Voltairians 
added : “ Will Boulatruelle cheat the demon, or the demon 
cheat Boulatruelle ? ” while the old women crossed themselves 
repeatedly. Boulatruelle, however, discontinued his forest 
rambles, and regularly resumed his work, whereupon something 
else was talked about. Some persons, however, remained 
curious, thinking that there was probably in the affair, not the 
fabulous treasure of the demon, but something more palpable 
and tangible than his banknotes, and that the road-mender 
had doubtless found out half the secret. The most puzzled 
were the schoolmaster and Thfinardior the publican, who was 
everybody’s friend, and had not disdained an intimacy with 
Boulatruelle. 

“ lie has been to the galleys*” Thenardier would say. 
” Well, good gracious, we do not know who is there, or who 
may go there.” 

Boulatruelle, on going to work at day-break one morning, 
was surprised at seeing under a bush a spade and a pick, which 
” looked as if they were hidden ; ” still he fancied that they be- 
longed to Father Six-fours, the water-carrier, and did not think 
any more of the matter. On the evening of the same day, how- 
ever, he saw, without being himself seen, as he was hidden be- 
hind a tree, ” an individual who did nat belong to these parts, 
and whom he, Boulatruelle, knew,” proceeding towards the 
most retired part of the wood. This Thenai'dier translated as 
” a comrade at the galleys,” but Boulatruelle obstinately refus- 
ed to mention his name. This individual was carrying a bundle, 
something square, like a box or small chest. Boulatruelle was 
surprised, but it was not till some ten minutes later that the 
idea of following the “ individual ” occurred to him. But it was 
too late, the individual was already among the trees, night had 
fallen, and Boulatruelle was unable to catoh him up. Then he 
resolved to watch the skirt of the wood, and the moon was shin- 
ing/ Boulatruelle, some two or three hours after, saw this in- 
dividual come out of the wood, not carrying the box, however, 
but a spade and pick. Boulatruelle allowed him to pass, and 
did not address him, for he said to himself that the other man 
was thrice as strong as he, and being armed with a pick would 
probably smash him on recognizing him and finding himself re- 
cognized ; a touching effusion on the part of two old comrades 



LES MISERABLES 


147 


who ^ddenly meet.’ But the spade and pick were a ray of light 
for Boulatruelle ; he hurried to the bush at day-break, and no 
longer found them there. From this he concluded that his in- 
dividual, on entering the wood, had dug a hole with his pick, 
hurried his box in it, and then covered it up with the spade. 
Now, a§ the box was too small to contain a corpse, it must con- 
tain money, and hence his researches. Boulatnielle explored 
the forest in all directions, and especially at spots where the 
ground seemed to have been recently turned up, but it was all 
of no use, he discovered nothing. Nobody in Montfermeil 
thought any more of the matter, except some worthy gossips 
who said, — “ You may be sure that the road-mender did not 
take all that trouble for nothing ; it is certain that the fiend 
has been here.” 

Toward the close of Oct., in the same year, 1823, the in- 
habitants of Toulon saw a vessel enter their port which had 
sustained some damage in a heavy storm. It was the Orion, 
which at a latter date was employed at Brest as a training 
school, but now formed part of the Mediterranean fleet. This 
vessel, battered as it was, for the sea had ill-treated it, produced 
an effect on entering the roads. It displayed some flag which 
obtained it the regulation salute of eleven guns, to which it re- 
plied round for roiind-i-a total of two-and-twcnty rounds. It 
has been calculated that in salvos, royal and military politeness, 
exchanges of courtesy signals, formalities of roads and citadels, 
sunrise and sunset saluted every day by all the fortresses and 
vessels of war, opening and closing gates, etc., the civilized 
world fired every twenty-four hours, and in all parts of the 
globe, one hundred and fifty ^ousand useless rounds. At six 
francs round, this makes 900,000 francs a day. Three hun- 
dred millions a year expended in smoke. During this time 
poor people are dy^ng of starvation. 

The presence of a man-of -war in a port has something about 
it which attracts and occupies the mob. It is grand, and the 
multitude love anything that is grand. A vessel of the line is 
one of the most magnificent encounters which the genius of 
man has with the might of nature. 

Every day, from morning till night, the quays and piers of 
Toulon were covered with numbers of idlers, whose business it 
vras to look at the Orion. This vessel had long been in a sickly 
state. During previous voyages barnacles had collected on hex 



148 


LES MISERABLES 


hull to such an extent that she lost half her speed ; she ha^heen 
taken into dry dock the year previous to scrape off these 
barnacles, and then put to sea again. But this scraping had 
injured the bolts, and when off the Balearic Isles, she sprang 
a leak, and took in water, as vessels were not coppered in those 
days. A violent equinoctial gale supervened, which .injured 
her larboard bows and destroyed the fore chains. In conse- 
quence of this damage the Orion put into Toulon, and anchored 
near the arsenal for repairs. The hull was uninjured, but a 
few planks had been unnailed here and there to let air in, as is 
usually the case. 

One morning the crowd witnessed an accident. The crew 
were engaged in bending the sails, and the top-man, who had 
hold of the upper corner of the main- top-sail, lost his balance. 
He was seen to totter, the crowd on the arsenal quay uttered a 
cry, his head dragged him downwards, and he turned round the 
yard with his hands stretched down to the water, but he 
caught hold of the foot-rope as he passed it, first with one hand, 
then with the other, and remained hanging from it. The sea 
was below him at a dizzy depth, and the shock of his fall had 
given the foot-rope a violent swinging movement. The man 
swung at the end of rope like a stone in a sling. To go to his 
assistance would be running a frightful jisk, and not one of the 
sailors, all coast fishermen lately called in for duty, dared to 
venture it. Still the unhappy top-man was growing tired : 
his agony could not be seen in his face, but his exhaustion 
could be distinguished in all his limbs, and his arms were 
awfully dragged. Any effort he made to raise himself only 
caused the foot-rope to oscillate^ the more, and he did not cry 
out, for fear of exhausting his strength. The minute was close 
at hand when he must leave go the rope, and every now 
and then all heads were turned away not tq see it happen. All 
at once a man could be seen climbing up the shrouds with the 
agility of a tiger-cat. As he was dres^d in red this man was 
a convict ; as he wore a green cap he was a convict for life. 
On reaching the top a puff of wind blew away his cap, and dis- 
played a white head ; hence he was not a young man. 

A convict, employed on board with a gang, had in fact at 
once run up to the officer of the watch, and while all the sailors 
trembled and recoiled, asked permission to risk his life in say- 
ing the top-man. At a nod of assent from the officer he broke 



LES MISEBABLES 


U9 


witih ^ne blow of a hammer the chain riveted to his ankle, took 
up a fope, and darted up the shrouds. No one noticed at the 
moment with what ease this chain was broken ; and the fact 
was not remembered till afterwards. In a second he was upon 
the yard, where he stood for a little while as if looking round 
him. These seconds, during which the wind swung the 
top-mati at the end of a thread, seemed ages to the persons 
who were looking at him. At length the convict raised his 
eyes to heaven and advanced a step. The crowd breathed 
again, as they saw him run along the yard. On reaching the 
end he fastened to it the rope he had brought with him, let it 
hang down, and then began going down it hand over hand. 
This produced a feeling of indescribable agony, for, instead of 
one man hanging over the gulf, there were now two. Ten 
thousand eyes were fixed on the group : not a cry, not a word 
could be heard. The convict, in the interim, had managed to 
get close to the sailor, and it was high time, for a minute later 
the man, exhausted and desperate, would have let himself 
drop into the sea. The convict fastened him securely with 
the rope to which he clung with one hand, while he worked with 
the other. At length he was seen to climb back to the yard and 
haul the sailor up : he supported him there for a moment, to 
let him regain his strength, then took him in his arms and 
carried him along the yard to the cap, and thence to the top, 
where he left him with his comrades. The crowd applauded 
him, and several old sergeants of the chain-gang had tears in 
their eyes : women embraced each other on the quay, and 
every voice could be heard shouting with a species of frenzy, 
— “ Pardon for that man I ” 

The convict, however, begail going down again immediately 
to rejoin his gang. In order to do so more rapidly he slid down 
a rope, and ran along a lower yard. All eyes followed him, 
and at one moment 1;he spectators felt afraid, for they fancied 
they could see him hesitate and totter, either through fatigue 
or dizziness ; all at once the crowd uttered a terrible cry, — ^the 
convict had fallen into the sea. The fall was a dangerous one, 
for the Algesiras frigate was anchored near the Oriorty and 
the poor galley slave had fallen between the two ships, and 
might be sucked under one of them. Four men hastily got 
into a boat and the crowd encouraged them for all felt anxious 
again. The man did not come to the surface again, anddis- 



160 


LES MISERABLES 


appeared in the sea without making a ripple, just as if he had 
fallen into a barrel of oil. They dragged for him, but iif vain ; 
they continued the search till nightfall, but his body was 
not even found . The next day the Toulon paper printed the fol- 
lowing lines “ Nov. 17, 1823.— Yesterday a convict, one of a 
gang on board the Orton, fell into the sea and was drowned, as 
he was returning from assisting a sailor. His body has ftot been 
found, and is supposed to be entangled among the piles at 
Arsenal Point. The man was imprisoned under the No. 9430, 
and his name was Jean Valjean.” 

Montfermcil is situated between Livry and Chelles, on 
the southern slope of the lofty plateau which separates the 
Orque from the Marne. At the present day it is a rather 
large place, adorned with stucco villas all the year round, and 
with holiday-making cits on Sunday. In 1823 it was merely 
a village in the woods. It was a quiet, pleasant spot. Per- 
sons lived there cheaply that peasant life which is so tranquil 
and abundant. The only thing was that watc'r was scarce, 
owing to the elevation of the plateau, and it had to be fetched 
from some distance. That end of the village which was on the 
Gagny side obtained its water from the sj)Ien&lt;lid ponds in 
the forest there; but the other end, which surrounds the 
church and is on the Chelles side, couTd only obtiiin drinking 
water from a little spring about a quarter of an hour’s walk from 
Montfermeil, near the road to Chelles ; laying in water was 
therefore a hard task for every family. The large houses and 
the aristocracy, among which Th^nardier’s pot-house may be 
reckoned, paid a liard a bucket to a man whose trade it was, 
and who earned by it about eight*sous a day. But this man only 
worked till seven p. M. in summer, and till five in winter ; and 
once night had set in and the ground-floor shutters were closed, 
any person who had no water to drink mflst either fetch it or 
go without. 

This was the terror of the poor creature whom the reader 
will not have forgotten, little Cosette. It will be remembered 
that Cosette was useful to the Thenardiera in two ways, — ^they 
made the mother pay and the child act as servant. Hence 
when the mother ceased payment, the Th6uardiers kept Cosetted 
who took the place of a servant. In this quality she had to 
fetch water when it was wanted, and the child, terrified at the 



LES MISEBABLES 


161 


idea of going to the spring at night, was very careful that the 
house should never be without water. Christmas of 1823 was 
peculiarly brilliant at Montfermeil ; the beginning of the winter 
was mild, and there had been neither snow nor frost. Some 
mountebanks, who came from Paris, had obtained leave from 
the mayor to erect their booth in the village high street, and a 
party ef travelling hawkers had put their stalls in the church 
square, and even in the lane in which Th6nardier's pot-house 
was situated. This filled the inns and pot-houses, and produced 
a noisy, joyous life in this quiet little place. 

On the Christmas evening several carters and hawkers were 
sitting to drihk, round four or five candles, in Th^nardier's tap- 
room. Madame Th6nardier was watching the supper, which 
was roasting before a bright clear fire, while her husband was 
drinking with his guests and talking politics. 

Cosette was seated at her usual place, the cross bar of the 
table, near the chimney ; she was in rags, her bare feet were 
thrust into wooden shoes, and she was knitting, by the fire 
light, stockings intended for the young Thfenardiers. Two 
merry children could be heard laughing and prattling in an 
adjoining room ; they were Eponine and Azelma. A cat-o’- 
nine-tails hung from a nail by the side of the chimney. At 
times, the cry of a baby somewhere in the house was audible 
through the noise of thb tap-room ; it was a little boy Madame 
Th6nardier had given birth to one winter, “ without knowing 
how,” she used to say, “ it was the effect of the cold,” and 
who was a little over three years of age. The mother suckled 
him, but did not love him ; when his cries became too trouble- 
some, Thenardier would say— * There's’ your brat squalling ; 
go and see what he wants.” Stuff,” the mother would an- 
swer, • he's a nuisance ; ” and the poor deserted little wretch 
would continue to cry in the darkness. 

Up to the preserft, only a side-view of the Th6nardiers has 
been offered the reader of this book, but the moment has now 
arrived to walk round the couple, and regard them all sides. 
Thenardier had passed his fiftieth year, Madame Thenardier 
was Just on her fortieth, which is fifty in a woman ; and in 
this way there was a balance of age between husband and 
wife. Our readers may probably have retained from the first 
meeting some recollection of this tall, light-haired, red, fat, 
square, enormous, and active woman; she belonged, as we 



152 


LES MISEBABLES 


said, to the lace of giantesses, who show themselves at fairs, 
with paving stones hanging from their hair. She did every- 
thing in the house ; made the beds, cleaned the rooms, was 
cook and laundress, produced rain and fine weather, and 
played the devd. Her only assistant was Cosette, a mouse 
in the service of an elephant. All trembled at the sound of 
her voice, windows, furniture, and people ; and her large face, 
dotted with freckles, looked like a skimmer. She had a 
beard, and was the ideal of a Billingsgate porter dressed in 
female attire. She swore splendidly, and boasted of being 
able to crack a w^alnut with a blow of her fist. Had it not 
been for the romances she had read, and which at times made 
the finnikin woman appear under the ogress, no one would 
ever have dreamed of thinking that she was feminine. She 
seemed to be the product of a cross between a young damsel 
and a fishfag. When people heard her speak, they said, — 
“ 'Tis a gendarme ; ” when they saw her drink, they said, — 
“ 'Tis a carter ; and when they saw her treatment of Cosette, 
they said, — 'Tis the hangman ; ” when she was quiet, a tooth 
projected from her mouth. 

Th6nardier was a short, thin, sallow, angular, bony, weak 
man, who looked ill, and was perfectly well — his cunning be- 
gan with this. He smiled habitually through caution, and was 
polite to nearly everybody, even to the beggar whom he re- 
fused a halfpenny. He had the eye of a ferret and the face 
of a man of letters, and greatly resembled the portraits of 
Abbe Delille. His coquetry consisted in drinking with car- 
riers, and no one had ever been able to intoxicate him. He 
wore a blouse, and under it an old black coat, and had pre- 
tensions to literature and materialism. There were some 
names he frequently uttered in order to support an argu- 
ment, such as Voltaire, Raynal, Pamy, and, strangely enough, 
St. Augustine. He declared that he had “ a system."' He 
was a thorough scamp, however. It will be remembered that 
he asserted he had been a soldier, and told people with some 
pomp how at Waterloo, where he was sergeant in the 6th or 
9th light something, he alone, against a squadron of Hussars 
of Death, had covered with his body and saved ** a severely 
wounded general.’" Hence came his flaming sign, and the 
name by which his house was generally known, The Ser- 
geatU of Waterloo. He was liberal, classical, and Bona- 



LES MISEBABLES 


163 


paitist ; he had subscribed to the Champ d’Asile, and it was. 
said im the village that he had studied for the priesthood. 
We believe that he had simply studied in Holland to be an 
inn-keeper. This scoundrel of a composite order was in all 
probability some Fleming of Ldle, a Frenchman at Paris, a 
Belgian at Brussels, conveniently striding over two frontiers. 
We know his prowess at Waterloo, and, as we see, he exag- 
gerated slightly. Ebb and flow and wandering adventures 
were the elements of his existence. A tattered conscience 
entails an irregular life, and probably at the stormy period 
of June 18th, 1815, Thenardier belonged to that variety of 
marauding sutlers to whom we have alluded, who go about 
the country selling to some and robbing others, and moving 
about in a halting cart after marching troops, with the in- 
stinct of always joining the victorious army. When the cam- 
paign was over, having, as he said, “ some brads," he opened 
a pot-house at Montfermeil. These “ brads," consisting of 
purses and watches, gold rings, and silver crosses, collected 
in ditches filled with corpses, did not make a heavy total, and 
did not carry very far this sutler turned inn-keeper. 

Thenardier had only one thought — ^to enrich himself, but 
he did not succeed, for a suitable stage was wanting for this 
great talent. Thenardier ruined himself at Montfermeil, if 
ruin is possible at zero'; in Switzerland or the Pyrenees he 
would have become a millionaire. But where fate fastens a 
landlord he must browse. In this year, 1823, Thenardier 
was in debt to the amount of 1500 francs, which rendered 
him anxious. Whatever might be the obstinate injustice of 
destiny against him, Thenardier was one of those men who 
thoroughly understand, and it? the most modern fashion, the 
theory which is a virtue in barbarous nations, and an article 
of sale among civilized nations — hospitality. He was also 
an admirable poacher, and renowned for the correctness of 
his aim, and he had a certain cold and peaceful laugh, which 
was peculiarly dangerous. 

His landlord theories burst forth from him at times in 
flashes, and he had professional aphorisms which he drove 
into his wife's mind. ** The duty of a landlord," he said one 
day savagely, and in a low voice, " is to sell to the first comer, 
ragouts, rest, light, fire, dirty sheets, chamber-maids, fleas, 
and smiles; to arrest passers-by, empty small purses, and 



154 


LES MISERABLES 


.honestly lighten heavy ones ; to shelter respectfully travel- 
ling families, rasp the husband, peck the wife, and pluck the 
children ; to set a price on the open window, the shut win- 
dow, the chimney corner, the easy chair, the sofa, the stool, 
the feather bed, the mattress, and the palliasse ; to know how 
much the reflection wears off the looking-glass, and charge 
for it, and by the five hundred thousand fiends to make the 
traveller pay for everything, even to the flies his dog eats ! ” 

Four new travellers arrived, Cosette was sorrowfully re- 
flecting, for though only eight years of age she had already 
suffered so much that she thought with the mournful air of 
an old woman. Her eyelid was blackened by a blow which 
the woman had given her, which made Madame say now and 
then, “ How ugly she is with her black eye ! ** Cosette was 
thinking then that it was late, very late ; that she had been 
suddenly obliged to fill the jugs and bottles in the rooms of 
the travellers who had just arrived, and that there was no 
water in the cistern. What reassured her most was the fact 
that but little water was drunk at the Sergeant of Water- 
loo, There was no lack of thirsty souls, but it w^as that 
sort of thirst which applies more readily to the wine jar than 
to the w^ater bottle. Any one who asked for a glass of water 
among the glasses of wine would have appeared a savage to 
all these men. At one moment, howler, the child trembled ; 
her mistress raised the cover of a stew-pan, bubbling on a 
stove, then took a glass and hurried to the cistern. The 
child had turned, and was watching all the movements. A 
thin stream of water ran from the tap and filled the glass, 
“ Hilloh,” she said, “ there is no water ; " then she was silent 
for a moment, during which tine child did not breathe. 

“ Well,'* Madame Th6nardier continued, as she examined 
the half-filled glass, “ this will be enough." 

Cosette returned to her work, but for mote than a quarter of an 
hour she felt her heart beating in her chest. She counted 
the minutes that passed thus, and wished that it were next 
morning. From time to time one of the topers looked out 
into the street and said, " It's as black as pitch,” or ** A man 
would have to be a cat to go into the street at this hour with- 
out a lantern,” and Cosette shivered. All at once, one of the 
pedlars lodging at the inn came in and said in a harsh voice, 
horse has had no water.” 



LES MISERABLES 


155 


Oh yes, it has," said Madame Thenardier. 

I fell you it has not, mother," the pedlar went on. 

Cosette had crept out from under the table. 

Oh yes, sir," she said, “ your horse drank a bucket-full, 
and I gave it the water and talked to it." 

This was not true. 

“ There's a girl no bigger than one's fist who tells a lie as 
big as a house," the dealer exclaimed. “ I tell you it has not 
had any water, you little devil ; it has a way of breathing 
which I know well when it has not drunk." 

Cosette persisted, and added in a voire rendered hoarse 
by agony, and which was scarce audible, — 

" Oh, indeed, the horse drank a lot." 

" Enough of this," the dealer said savagely " give my 
horse water." 

Cosette went back under the table. 

" Well, that is but fair," said Madame, " if the brute has 
not drunk it ought to drink." Then she looked around her. 
" Why, where is the little devil ? " 

She stooped down, and discovered Cosette hidden at the 
other end of the table, almost under the feet of the topers. 

“ Come out of that," her mistress shouted. 

Cosette came out of t;)lie hole in which she had hidden her- 
self, and the landlady continued, — 

" Miss what's your name, give the horse water." 

" There is no water, Madame," Cosette said, faintly. 

Her mistress threw the street door wide open. 

“ Well, go and fetch some." 

Cosette hung her head, and fetched an empty bucket 
standing in a corner near the chimney ; it was larger than 
herself, and she could have sat down in it comfortably. 
Madame Th^nardier^ returned to her stove and tasted the 
contents of a stew-pan with a wooden spoon, while growling, — 

“ There's plenty at the spring. I believe it would have 
been better to sift the onions." 

Then she rummaged in a drawer which contained half- 
pence, pepper, and shalots. 

“ Here, Miss Toad," she added, " as you come back, you 
will fetch a loaf from the baker's. Here’s a fifteen sous piece." 

Cosette had a small pocket in her apron, in which she 
placed the coin ; then she stood motionless, bucket in hand, 



156 


LES MISEEABLES 


and with the door open before her. She seemed to be wait 
ing for some one to come to her help. 

“ Be ofi/' her mistress shouted. 

Cosette went out and shut the door after her. 

The file of open-air shops, in Montfermeil, ran as far as 
Th6nardier's inn. These stalls, owing to the approaching 
passing of persons going to midnight mass, were all lit up 
with candles in paper funnels, which, as the schoolmaster 
who was seated at this moment in ThSnardier^s tap-room, de- 
clared, produced a “ magical effect.^' To make up for this, 
not a star glittered in the sky. The last of these shops, 
right facing Thenardier's door, was a child's toy establish- 
ment, all flashing with tinsel, glass-beads, and magnificent 
things in block-tin. Right in front,* the dealer had placed 
upon a white napkin an enormous doll, nearly two feet high, 
which w^as dressed in a pink crape gown, with golden wheat- 
ears in her hair, which was real hair, and had enamel eyes. 
The whole day had this marvel been displayed, to the amaze- 
ment of all passers-by under ten years of age, but not a 
mother in Montfermeil had been rich enough or extravagant 
enough to give it to her child. Eponine and Azelma had 
spent hours in contemplating it, and even Cosette had ven- 
tured to take a furtive look at it. ^ 

At the moment when Cosette went out, bucket in hand, 
though she felt so sad and desolate, she could not refrain 
from raising her eyes to the prodigious doll, the “ lady," as 
she called it. The poor child stopped petrified, for she had 
not seen this doll so close before. The whole stall seemed 
to her a palace, and this doll was not a doll, but a vision. She 
looked at the fine dress, the long smooth hair, and thought, 
“ How happy that doll must be ! " In this adoration she 
forgot everything, even the task on which she was sent, but 
suddenly the rough voice of her mistress recalled her to the 
reality. “ What, you little devil, you have not gone ! just 
wait till I come to you, yoti little toad." Madame Th^nardier 
had taken a look out into the street, and noticed Cosette in 
ecstasy. The child ran oft with her bucket, making enormous 
strides. As Th^nardier's inn was in that part of the village 
near the church, Cosette had to fetch the water from the 
spring in the forest on the Chelles side. She did not look at 
another stall ; so long as she was in the lane and the vicinity 



LES MISBRABLES 


157 


of the church, the illuminated booths lit up the road, but the 
last gleam of the last stall soon disappeared, and the poor 
child found herself in darkness. She went further into it, 
but, as she felt some emotion while walking, she shook the 
handle of her bucket as much as she could, which produced 
a noise that gave her company. The further she went, the 
more dense the gloom became ; there was no one in the streets 
except a woman, who turned on seeing her pass, and muttered 
between her teeth, “ Wherever can the child be going ? can 
she be a goblin ? ** Then she recognized Cosette. Why,” 
siie said, ” it is the Lark.” Cosette in this way went through 
the labyrinth of winding deserted streets which end the vil- 
lage of Montfermeil on the side of Chelles ; and so long as she 
had houses, or even walls on both sides of the way, she walked 
rather boldly. From time to time she saw a candle glimmer- 
ing through the crack of a shutter; it was light and life, 
people were there, and this reassured her. Still, in propor- 
tion as she advanced, her step beoame slower, as if mechanic- 
ally, and when she had passed the corner of the last house, 
Cosette stopped. Going beyond the last stall had been difii- 
cult, but going further than the last house became an impos- 
sibility. She put her bucket on the ground, plunged her 
hand into her hair, and began scratching her head slowly — a 
gesture peculiar to terrified and undecided children. It was 
no longer Montfermeil, but the fields, and black deserted 
space was before her. She looked despairingly at this space 
in which there was nobody, but where there were beasts, and 
there might be ghosts. She looked out, and heard the beasts 
walking in the grass, and distinctly saw the ghosts moving 
among the trees. Then she took her bucket again, and fear 
gave her boldness. “ Well,” she said, ” I will tell her that 
there was no water ; ” and she boldly re-entered Montfermeil. 
She had scarce gon9 one hundred yards when she stopped, 
and began scratching her head again. Now it was her mis- 
tress who appeared to her — ^her hideous mistress with her 
hyaena mouth, and her eyes flashing with passion. The child 
took a lamentable glance before and behind her. What 
should she do ? what would become of her ? where should 
she go ? It was from her mistress she recoiled ; she turned 
back in the direction of the spring, and began running. She 
left the village running, she entered the wood running, look- 



158 


LES MISERABLES 


ing at nothing, hearing nothing. She did not stop till breath 
failed her, but she still went on ahead, wildly. While run- 
ning she felt inclined to cry, for the nocturnal rustling of the 
forest completely surrounded her. She did not think, she 
did not see ; the immensity of night was opposed to this little 
creature ; on one side was darkness, on the other an atom. 
It was only seven or eight minutes* walk from thOi skirt of 
the wood to the spring, and Cosette knew the road from 
having gone there several times by day. Strange to say, she 
did not lose her way, for a remnant of instinct vaguely guided 
her ; still she did not look either to the right or left, for fear 
of seeing things in the branches and shrubs. In this way 
she reached the spring ; it was a narrow natural basin hol- 
lowed by the water in the dry soil, about two feet in depth, 
surrounded by moss and that gauffered grass which is called 
Henri IV/s ruff, and paved with a few heavy stones. A 
rivulet escaped from it with a little gentle murmur. 

Cosette did not take the time to breathe ; it was very 
daik, but she was accustomed to come to this fountain. She 
felt in the obscurity for a young oak that leant over the 
spring, and usually served her as a support, caught a branch, 
stooped down, and plunged the bucket into the water. She 
w^as in such a violent state that her strength was tripled. 
W’^hile thus bent, she did not notice^that the pocket of her 
apron emptied itself into the stream, and that the fifteen sous 
piece fell into the water. Cosette neither sfiw nor heard it 
fall ; she drew up the bucket nearly full, and placed it on the 
grass. This done, she felt that she was exhausted with 
fatigue ; the effect of filling the bucket had been so great 
that she found it impossible to move a step. She fell on to 
the grass, and lay there utterly exhausted. Over her head 
the sky was covered with largo black clouds, which seemed 
like smoke. Jupiter was setting in the profundity ; the child 
gazed with a wondering eye at this large star, which she did 
not know, and which terrified her. The planet, in fact, was 
at this moment very near the horizon, and was passing through 
a dense fog, which gave it a horrible redness. The fog, which 
was of a gloom}’ purple hue, enlarged the planet, and it looked 
like a luminous wound. A cold wind blew from the plain ; 
the wood was dark, but there was no rustling of leaves, and 
none of the vague and fresh gleams of summer. Large 



LES MISEBABLES 


159 


branches stood out frightfully, and shapeless, stunted bushes • 
soughed in the glades. The tall grass twined under the 
breeze like eels, and the brambles writhed like long arms 
provided with claws seeking to clutch their prey. A few 
witheredpatchcsof fern, impelled by the breeze, passed rapidly, 
and seemed to be flying before something that was coming up. 

Darkness produces a dizziness. Man requires light, and 
any one who enters the opposite of light, feels his heart con- 
tracted. When the eye sees darkness, tlie soul sees trouble. 

Without understanding what she experienced, Cosetto 
felt herself affected by this black enormity of nature. She 
shuddered, and words fail us to describe the strange nature 
of this shudder which chilled her to the heart. Then, by a 
species of instinct, and in order to emerge from this singular 
state which she did not understand, but which terrified her, 
she began counting aloud one, two, three, four, up to ten, 
and when she finished, she began again. This restored her to 
a true perception of the things that surrounded her : she felt 
the coldness of her hands, which she had wetted in drawing 
the water. She rose, for fear had seized on her again, a 
natural and insurmountable fear. She had only one thought 
left, to fly, fly at full speed through the wood, and across the 
fields, as far as the houses, the windows, and the lighted 
candles. Her eyes fell bn the bucket before her ; and such 
was the terror with which her mistress inspired her that 
she did not dare fly without the bucket. She seized the 
handle with both hands, and found it difficult to lift. She 
proceeded thus for about a dozen yards, but the bucket was 
full and heavy, and she was compelled to set it on the ground. 
She breathed for a moment, ahd then lifted the bucket and 
started again, this time going a little farther. But she was 
still obliged to stop once more, and after a few moments* 
rest, set out again, She walked with body bent forward and 
drooping head, like an old woman; and the weight of the 
bucket stiffened her thin arms. The iron handle swelled and 
froze her small white hands. From time to time she was 
forced to stop, and each time she did so, the cold water from 
the bucket plashed her bare legs. This occurred in the heart 
of a wood, at night in winter, far from any human eye. She 
was a child of eight years of age, and God alone at this mo- 
ment saw this sorrowful sight, and her mother too, doubtless f 



160 LES MISEBABLES 

•for there are things which open the eyes of the dead in their 
graves. • 

She breathed with a sort of dolorous rattle ; sobs contract- 
ed her throat, but she did not dare cry, for she was so afraid 
of her mistress, even at a distance. It was her habit always 
to imagine Madame Thenardier present. Still, she did not 
make much progress in this way, and she walked very slowly, 
although she strove to lessen the length of her halts and walk 
as long as she possibly could between them. She thought 
with agony that it would take her more than an hour to get 
back to Montfermoii in this way, and that her mistress would 
beat her. This agony ^vas mingled with her terror at being 
alone in the wood at night ; she was worn out with fatigue, 
and had not yet left the forest. On reaching an old chestnut 
tree which she knew, she made a longer halt than the others 
to rest herself thorouglily ; then she collected all her strength, 
took up the bucket again, and began walking courageously. 
Still the poor little creature in her despair could not refrain, 
from exclaiming, — Oh God ! Oh God ! " All at once she 
suddenly felt that the bucket no longer weighed anything ; a 
hand which seemed to her enormous, had seized it, and was 
vigorously lifting it. She raised her head, and saw a tall 
black form walking by her side ; it was a man who had come 
up behind her, and whom she had* not heard. This man, 
without saying a word, had seized the handle of the bucket 
wliich she w^as carrying. There is an instinct in every meet- 
ing of this life, and the child felt no fear. 


CHAPTER VIII 

On the afternoon of this same Christmas day, 1823, a man 
vralked for a long time about the most desolate part of the 
Boulevard de THopital, at Paris. He seemed to be looking 
for a lodging, and to stop for choice at the most shabby 
houses in this skirt of the Faubourg St. Marceau. As we 
shall see presently, this man had really hired a bed-room in 
this isolated district. Both in dress and person, he realized 
the type of what might be called the respectable mendicant, 
or extreme misery combined with extreme cleanliness. He 
wore a very old and carefully-brushed round hat, a thread- 



LES MISERABLES 


161 


bare coat of coarse yellow ochre coloured cloth, a colour, 
which •was not absolutely odd at that day, a long waistcoat 
with enormous pockets, black breeches which had turned 
grey at the knees, black worsted stockings, and stout shoes 
with brass buckles. He looked like the ex-tutor of a good 
family returned from emigration. From his white hair, 
wrinkled -forehead, livid lips, and his face in which everything 
revealed weariness of life, he might have been supposed much 
beyond sixty years of age; but his firm though slow step, 
and the singular vigour imprinted on all his movements, 
made him look scarce fifty. His lip was contracted by a 
strange curve, which seemed stern, but was humble, and 
there was a lugubrious serenity in his look. He carried in 
his left hand a small parcel tied up in a handkerchief ; and 
in his right he had a stick cut from a hedge. Tliis stick had 
been carved with some care, and was not too bad looking ; 
advantage had been taken of the knots, and a coral knob had 
been made with red sealing wax, — it was a cudgel and seemed 
a cane. 

At this period Louis XVIII. went almost daily to Choisy 
le Roi, which was one of his favourite drives. At two o'clock 
the royal carriage and escort could almost invariably be seen 
passing at full gallop along the Boulevard dc I’HopitaL 

The infallible passage'* of the king at the same hour was 
the daily event of the Boulevard de I'Hopital. The pro- 
menader in the yellow coat plainly did not belong to that 
quarter, and probably not to Paris, for he was ignorant of 
the fact. When at two o'clock the royal carriage, surrounded 
by Life Guards with their silver aiguillettes, turned into the 
Boulevard, after coming round Salpetri^re, he seemed sur- 
prised and almost terrified. As he was alone in the walk, 
he quickly concealed himself behind an angle of the wall ; but 
this did not prevent the Duo d'Havre from noticing him. 
The Due, as Captain of the Guards on duty that day, was 
seated in the carriage opposite to the king, and said to his 
Majesty, — There is an iJl-looking fellow." The policemen, 
who cleared the way for the king, also noticed him, and one 
of them received orders to follow him. But the man turned 
into the solitary streets of the Faubourg, and, as night was 
setting in, the agent lost his trail. At nightfall he entered 
The Pewter PlcUter which was at that time the office of 

F 



162 


LES MISERABLES 


. the Lagny coach, which started at half&gt;past four. The horses 
were put in, and the passengers, summoned by the: driver, 
were hastily clambering up the iron steps of the vehicle. 

The traveller paid his fare to Lagny, and the coach started. 
After passing the city gate, the driver tried to get up a con- 
versation, but the traveller only answered in monosyllables. 
As the night was cold, he wrapped himself in his cloak, but 
the passengers did not seem to notice it. At about six o'clock 
they reached Chelles, where the driver stopped for a moment 
to let his horses breathe, at an inn opened in the old build- 
ings of the Royal Abbey. 

** I shall get down here,'' the man said. 

He took his bundle and stick, and jumped off the coach. 
A moment after he had disappeared, but he did not enter the 
inn. When the coachman started again a few moments after, 
he did not meet him in the high street of Lagny, and he 
turned round to his inside passengers : — 

“ That man," he said, “does not belong to these parts, for 
I do not know him. He looks as if he had not a penny, and 
yet he don't care for money, as he paid his fare to Lagny and 
only came as far as Chelles. It is night, all the houses are 
closed, he has not gone into the inn, and yet I can't see him, 
80 he must have sunk into the ground." 

The man had not sunk into the gft)und, but walked hastily 
along the main street of Chelles, in the darkness; then ho 
turned to his left, before reaching the church, into a cross- 
road that runs to Montfermeil like a man who knows the 
country and had been there before. He followed this road 
rapidly, and at the spot where it is intersected by the old road 
that runs from Lagny to Gagiiy, he heard wayfarers coming. 
He hurriedly concealed himself in a ditch, and waited till 
they had passed ; the precaution, however, was almost super- 
fluous, for, as we have said, it was a every dark December 
night, and only two or three stars were visible in the sky. 
The man did not return to the Montfermeil road, but went 
to his right, across the fields, and hurried in the direction of 
the wood. When he was in it, he slackened liis pace, and 
began looking carefully at all the trees, walking step by step, 
as if seeking and following a mysterious road known to him- 
self alone. There was a moment at which he seemed to lose 
himself and appeared undecided, but at last, by repeated 



LES MISERABLES 


163 


groping, he reached a glade in which there was a pile of large 
white stones. He walked hurriedly toward these stones, and 
attentively examined them, as if passing them in review. A 
large tree, covered with those excrescences which are the warts 
of vegetation, was a few paces from the heap ; he went up to 
it, and passed his hand over the back as if trying to recognize 
and count all the warts. Opposite this tree, which was an 
ash, there was a sickly chestnut shedding its bark, upon 
which a ring of zinc had been placed as a poultice ; he stood 
on tip-toe and felt this ring, then he examined for some time 
the ground in the space contained “Between the tree and the 
stones, as if assuring himself that the ground had not been 
freshly turned up. This done, he looked about him, and re- 
sumed his walk through the wood. 

It was this man who came across Cosette. While pro- 
ceeding in the direction of Montfermeil, he perceived this little 
shadow depositing a load on the ground, then taking it up 
again, and continuing her journey. He went up and saw that 
it was a young child carrying an enormous bucket ; then he 
drew to her side, and silently took the bucket handle. 

Cosette, as we stated, was not frightened. The man spoke 
to her in a serious, almost low voice, — 

“ My child, what you are carrying is very heavy.'' 

Cosette raised her head and replied, “ Yes, sir." 

“ Give it to me," the man continued, “ I will carry it." 
Cosette let go the bucket, and the man walked on by her side. 
“ It is really very heavy," he muttered ; then added, " What 
is your age, little one ? " 

“ Eight years, sir." 

" And have you come far with this ? 

" From the spring in the wood." 

“ And how far have you to go ? " 

About a quarter*of an hour's walk." 

The man stopped for a moment, and then suddenly said, — 
" Then you have not a mother ? " 

“ I do not know," the child answered. 

Before the man had time to speak, she continued, — 

1 do not think so, other girls have one, but I have not." 
And after a silence, she added, — 

" I believe that I never had one." 

The man stopped, put the bucket on the ground, and laid 



164 


LES MISERABLES 


his two hands on her shoulders, making an effort to see her 
face in the darkness. Cosette's thin sallow countenance was 
vaguely designed in the vivid gleam of the sky. 

“ What is your name ? ” the man asked her. 

“ Cosette.'^ 

The man seemed to have an electric shock ; he looked at 
her again, then removed his hands, took the bucket up again, 
and continued his walk. A moment after he asked, — 

“ Where do you live, little one ? ** 

“ At Montfermeil, if you know the place.” 

“ Are we going there i 

“ Yes, sir.” 

There was another pause, and then he began again. 

Who was it that sent you to fetch water from the wood 
at this hour ? ” 

“ Madame Th6nardier.” 

The man continued with an accent which he strove to 
render careless, but in which there was, for all that, a singu- 
lar tremor. 

“ What is this Madame Thenardier ? ” 

“ She is my mistress,” the child said, '*and she keeps the inn.'* 

“ The inn ? ” remarked the man ; “ well, I am going to 
lodge there to-night. Show me the way.” 

” We are going to it ” • 

Though the man w^alked rather quickly, Cosette had no 
difficulty in keeping up with him ; she no longer felt fatigue, 
and from time to time raised her eyes to this man with a sort 
of indescribable calmness and confidence. She had never 
been taught to turn’ her eyes towards Providence, and yet she 
felt within her something that resembled hope and joy, and 
which rose to heaven. After the lapse of a few minutes the 
man continued, — 

” Does Madame Thenardier keep n(k servant ? Is there 
no one but you ? ” 

There are two little girls, Ponine and Zelma.” 

Who are they ? ” 

** They are Madame Th^nardier’s daughters.” 

" And what do they do ? ” 

” Oh ! ” said the child, ** they have handsome dolls, and 
things all covered with gold. They play about and amuse 
themselves.” 



LES MISEEABLES 


166 


" And you ? " 

OB, I work/' 

. ‘‘All day?” 

The child raised her large eyes, in which stood a tear, in- 
visible in the darkness, and replied softly, — 

“ Yes, sir.” After a silence she continued. “ Sometimes, 
when I have finished my work and they allow me, I amuse 
myself. But I have not many toys. Ponine and Zelma do 
not like me to play with their dolls, and I have only a little 
leaden sword, no longer than thatiii-- 

The child held out her little finger. 

“ And which does not cut ? ” 

“ Oh, yes, sir,” said the child, “ it cuts salad, and chops 
flics' heads off.” 

They reached the village, and Cosette guided the stranger 
through the streets. When they passed the baker's, Cosette 
did not think of the loaf which she was to bring in. The 
man had ceased questioning her, and preserved a gloomy 
silence. 

When they approached the inn, Cosette touched his arm timidly , 

” We are close to the house, will you let me carry my 
bucket now ? ” 

“ Why ? ” , 

‘‘ Because Madame will be at me if she sees that it has 
been carried for me.” 

The man gave her the bucket, and a moment later they 
were at the door of the pot-house, 

Cosette could not refrain from taking a side glance at the 
large doll which was displayed at the toy-shop, and then 
tapped at the door ; it openeeP, and Madame Th6nardier ap- 
peared, candle in hand. 

“ Oh, it's you, you little devil : well. I'll be hanged if you 
have not taken time enough ; you've been playing, I expect." 

" Madame," said Cosette, with a violent tremor ‘‘ this 
gentleman wants a bed-room.” 

Madame Th^nardier exchanged her coarse look for an 
amiable grimace, a change peculiar to landladies* and greedily 
turned her eyes on the new comer. 

The inspection of the stranger's clothes and luggage, which 
the landlady took in at a glance, caused the amiable grimace 
to disappear. She said drily, — 



166 


LES MISERABLES 


“ Come in, my good man.” 

The “ good man ” entered ; the landlady gave 'him a 
second look, carefully examined his thread-bare coat and 
broken-brimmed hat, and consulted her husband, who was 
still drinking with the carter, by a toss of the head, a curl 
of her nose, and a wink. The husband answered, with that 
imperceptible movement of the fore-finger which,’ laid on 
the puffed-out lips, signifies, — No go.” Upon this the 
landlady exclaimed, — 

” My good man, I sorry, but I haven’t a bed-room 

disengaged.” 

‘‘ Put me where you like,” the man said, ” in the loft or 
the stable. I will pay as if it were a bed-room.” 

” Forty sous.” 

” Be it so.” 

Forty sous ! ” a carrier whispered to the landlady ; 
“ why, it is only twenty sous.” 

“ It’s forty for a man like him,” Madame Thenardier re- 
plied in the same tone, ” I do not lodge poor people under.” 

” That is true,” the husband added gently ; ” it injures a 
house to have customers of that sort.” 

In the meanwhile the man, after leaving his bundle and 
stick on a form, sat down at a table on which Cosette had 
hastened to place a bottle of wine and a glass. The man, 
who scarce moistened his lips with the glass of wine he poured 
out, gazed at the child with strange attention. Cosette 
was ugly, but had she been happy she might possibly have 
been pretty. Her large eyes, buried in a species of shadow, 
were almost extinguished by constant crying, while the 
corners of her mouth had the* curve of habitual agony, which 
may be observed in condemned prisoners and patients who 
are given over. The fire light, which shone upon her at this 
moment, brought out the angles of* her bones, and ren- 
dered her thinness frightfully visible. Her entire clothing 
was one rag, which would have aroused pity in summer, and 
caused horror in winter. She had only torn calico upon her 
person, and not a morsel of woollen stuff ; her skin was hero 
and there visible, and everywhere could be distinguished blue 
or blacks marks, indicating the spots where her mistress had 
beaten her. Her bare legs were red and rough, and the hoi* 
low between her shoulder-blades would have moved you to 



LES MISEEABLES 


167 


tears. The whole person of this child, her attitude, the sound 
of her voice, the interval between one word and the next, her 
look, her silence, her slightest movement, expressed and trans- 
lated but one idea — fear. Fear was spread over her ; she 
was, so to speak, clothed in it. There was a corner in her 
eye in which terror lurked. This fear was so great that Co- 
sette, on Teturning wet through, did not dare go to the fire, 
but silently began her work again. The man in the yeUow 
coat did not take his eyes oS. Cosette. All at once her mis- 

^'TPQQ — 

“ HUIoh ! where’8 the loaf ? ” 

Cosette had completely forgotten the loaf, and had re- 
course to the expedient of terrified children, — she told a 
falsehood. 

“ Madame, the baker's was shut up." 

" You ought to have knocked." 

“ I did so, but he would not open." 

“ I shall know to-morrow whether that is the truth," said 
her mistress, “ and if it is not, look out, that's all. In the 
meanwhile give me back my fifteen-sous piece." 

Cosette plunged her hand into the pocket of her apron 
and turned green : the coin was no longer in it. 

Cosette turned her pocket out, but there was nothing in 
it. The wretched little*creature could not find a word to 
say, she was petrified. 

" Have you lost it ? " her mistress asked, " or are you 
trying to rob me ? " 

At the same time she stretched out her hand to the cat- 
o'-nine-tails ; this formidable gesture restored Cosette the 
strength to cry, — • 

" Mercy, m^ame ; I will never do it again.” 

The man in the yellow coat had been feeling in his waist- 
eoat pocket, though fio one noticed it. Moreover, the other 
guests were drinking or card-playing, and paid no attention 
to him. Cosette had retreated in agony to the chimney cor- 
ner, shivering to make herself as little as she could, and pro- 
tect her poor half-naked limbs. Her mistress raised her 
arm. 

" I beg your pardon, madame," said the man, “ but just 
now I saw something fall out of the little girl's pocket and 
rolling away. It may be that.” 



168 LES MISEBABLES 

At the same time he stooped and appeared to be searching 
for a moment. 

“ Yes, here it is,’" he continued, as he rose and held out a 
coin to the landlady. 

“ Yes, that’s it,” she said. 

It was not the real coin, it was a twenty-sous piece, but 
madame made a profit by the transaction. She put it into her 
pocket, and confined herself to giving the child a stern glance, 
saying, — That had better not happen again.” 

Cosette returned to what her mistress called her niche, 
and her large eyes, fixl^’^bn the strange traveller, began to 
assume an expression they had never had before. It was no 
longer a simple astonishment, but a sort of stupefied con- 
fidence was mingled with it. 

At this moment a door opened, and Eponine and Azclma 
came in. They were really two pretty little girls, rather 
tradesmen’s daughters than peasants, and very charming, one 
with her auburn well-smoothed tresses, the other with long 
black plaits hanging down her back ; both were quick, clean, 
plump, fresh, and pleasant to look on through their beaming 
health. They were warmly clothed, but with such maternal 
art that the thickness of the stufi did not remove anything of 
the coquetry of the style ; winter was foreseen, but spring 
was not effaced. In their dress, thhir gaiety, and the noise 
which they made, there was a certain queenliness. When 
they came in, their mother said to them in a scolding voice, 
vrhich was full of adoration, “ There you are, then.” 

Then, drawing them on to her knees in turn, smoothing 
their hair, retying their ribbons, and letting them go with 
that gentle shake which is peculiar to mothers, she exclaimed, 
” How' smart they are ! ” They sat down by the fire-side, 
with a doll which they turned over on their knees with all 
sorts of joyous prattle. At times Colette raised her eyes 
from her knitting, and mournfully watched their pla3ring. 
Eponine and Azelma did not look at Cosette, for to them 
she was like the dog. These three little girls did not count 
four-and-twenty years between them, and already represented 
human society — on one side envy, on the other, disdain. The 
doll was very old and broken, but it did not appear the less 
wonderful to Cosette, who never in her life possessed a doll, 
a ** real doll,” to employ an expression which all children will 



LES MISERABLES 


169 


understand. All at once the landlady, \?ho was going about 
the rgom, noticed that Cosette was idling, and watching the 
children instead of working. 

“ Ah, I have caught you,” she exclaimed ; “ that's the way 
you work, is it ? I'll make you work with the cat-o'-nine- 
tails.” 

The stranger, without leaving his chair, turned to Madame 
Thenardier. 

Oh, madame,” he said with an almost timid smile, “ let 
her play.” 

Such a wish would have been a Wmmand from any traveller 
who had ordered a good supper and drunk a couple of bottles 
of wine, and who did not look like a beggar. But the landlady 
did not tolerate a man who had such a hat, having a desire 1 
and one who wore such a coat daring to have a will of his own ! 
Hence she answered sharply, — 

” She must work, since she eats ; I do not keep her to do 
nothing.” 

“ What is she doing, pray ? ” the stranger continued, in that 
gentle voice which formed such a strange contrast wdth his 
beggar clothes and porter shoulders. 

The landlady deigned to reply, — 

“ She is knitting stockings, if you please, for my little girls, 
who have none, so to speak, and are forced to go about bare- 
footed.'” 

The man looked at Cosette's poor red feet, and said, — 

“ When will she have finished that pair of stockings ? ” 

She has three or four good days' work, the idle slut.” 

“ And how much may such a pair be worth w hen finished ? ” 

The landlady gave him a eontemptuous glance. 

At least thirty sous.” 

“ Will you sell them to me for five franca ? ” the man con- 
tinued. • 

By Job,” a carrier who was listening exclaimed, with a 
coarse laugh, ** I should think so, — five balls ! ” 

M. Thenardier thought it his duty to speak. 

“ Yes, sir, if such be your fancy, you can have the pair of 
stockings for five francs, we cannot refuse travellers anything,'* 

“ Cash payment/' the landlady said in her peremptory 
voice. 

'' I buy the pair of stockings,” the man said, and added, as 



170 


LES MISERABLES 


he drew a five-franc piece from his pocket and laid it on the 
table, I pay for them.” 

Then he turned to Cosette, — 

** Your labour is now mine, so play, my child.” 
Thenardier came up, and silently put the coin into hia 
pocket. The landlady could make no answer, but she bit her 
lips, and her face assumed an expression of hatred. • Cosetto 
was trembling, but still ventured to ask, — 

Is it true, madame ? May I play ? ” 

" Play,” her mistress said, in a terrible voice. 

And while her lips tfianSed the landlady, all her little soul 
thanked the traveller. Thenardier had returned to his glass, 
and his wife whispered in his ear, — 

“ What can this yellow man be ? ” 

“ I have seen,” Thenardier replied, with a sovereign air, 
millionaires who wore a coat like his.” 

Cosette had laid down her needle, but did not dare leave 
her place, for, as a rule, she moved as little as possible. She 
took from a box behind her a few old rags and her little leaden 
sword. Eponine and Azclma paid no attention to what was 
going on, for they were carrying out a very important opera- 
tion. They had seized the cat, thrown the doll on the ground, 
and Eponine, who was the elder, was wrapping up the kitten, 
in spite of its miaulings and writhings, in a quantity of red 
and blue rags. While performing this serious and difi&amp;cult 
task, she was saying to her sister in the sweet and adorable 
language of children, the grace of which, like the glistening of 
butterflies' wings, disappears when you try to fix it, — 

“ This doll, sister, is more amusing than the other, you see, 
for it moves, it cries, and is warm ; so we will play with it. 
It is my little daughter, and I am a lady ; you will call upon 
me and look at it. By degrees you will see its whiskers, and 
that will surprise you, and then you wilt see its ears and its 
tail and that will surprise you, too, and you will say to me, 
* Oh, my goodness ! ' and I shall answer, ‘ Yes, Madame, it is a 
little child I have like that ; little children are so at present.' ” 
While Eponine and Azelma were wrapping up the kitten, 
Cosette on her side was performing the same operation on her 
Bword. This done, she laid it on her arm, and sang softly to 
lull it to sleep. A doll is one of the most imperious wants, 
and at the same time one of the most delicious instincts, of 



LIS MISEBABLES 


171 


feminine childhood. To clean, clothe, adorn, dress, undress, 
dress again, teach, scold a little, nurse, lull, send to sleep, and 
imagine that something is somebody — the whole future of a 
Woman is contained in this. A little girl without a doll is 
nearly as unhappy and quite as impossible as a wife without 
children ; Cosette, therefore, made a doll of her sword. The 
landlady^ in the meanwhile, walked up to the “ yellow man.” 
“ My husband is right,” she thought, “ it is perhaps M. Lafitte. 
Some rich men are so whimsical.” She leant her elbow on the 
table and said, “ Sir ^ 

At the word “ Sir ” the man tiBneS round, for the female 
Th^nardier had up to the present only addressed him as My 
good man.” 

“ You see, sir,” she continued, assuming her gentle air, 
which was still more dreadful to see than her fierce look, ” I am 
glad to see the child play, it is all right for once, as you are 
generous. But, you see, she has nothing, and must work.” 

” Then, she is not a child of yours ? ” the man asked. 

” Oh ! Lord, no, sir ; she is a poor little girl we took in out 
of charity. She is a sort of imbecile, and I think has water 
on the brain, for she has a big head. We do all we can for 
her, but we are not rich, and though we write to her people, 
we have not had an answer for six months. It looks as if the 
mother were dead.” • 

“ Ah ! ” said the man, and fell back into his reverie. 

” The mother couldn't have been much,” the landlady add- 
ed, ” for she deserted her child.” 

During the whole of the conversation Cosette, as if an in- 
stinct warned her that she was being talked about, did not 
take her eyes off her mistress. • She listened and heard two or 
three indistinct words here and there, while, under her table, 
she looked at the fire which was reflected in her fixed eyes. 
She then began rocbing her doU again, and while lulling it to 
sleep sang in a low voice, ” My mother is dead, my mother is 
dead.” 

All at once Cosette broke off: she turned, and perceived 
the doll lying on the ground a few paces from the kitchen table. 
She let the wrapped-up sword, which only half satisfied her, 
fall, and then slowly looked round the room. The landlady 
was whispering to her husband, and reckoning some change* 
Eponine and Azelma were playing with the kitten, the guests 



172 


LES MISEBABLES 


were eating, drinking, or singing, and no one noticed her. She 
had not a moment to lose, so she crept on her hands and. knees 
from under the table, assured herself once again that she was 
not watched, and seized the doll. A moment after she was 
back in her seat, and turned so that the doll which she held in 
her arms should be in the shadow. The happiness of playing 
with this doll was almost too much for her. This joy lasted 
nearly a quarter of an hour, but in spite of the caution which 
Cosette took, she did not notice that one of the doll’s feet “was 
peeping out, and that the fi re lit it up very distinctly. This 
pink luminous foot enJefglhg from the glow suddenly caught 
the eye of Azelma, who said to Eponine, “ Look, sister.” 

The two little girls were stupefied : Cosette had dared to 
take their doll ! Eponine rose, and T^thout letting the cat go, 
ran to her mother and plucked the skirt of her dress. 

“ Let me be,” said the mother, “ what do you want now ? ” 
“ Mother,” said the girl, “ just look ! ” 

And she pointed to Cosette, who, yielding entirely to the 
ecstasy of possession, saw and heard nothing more. The land- 
lady’s face assumed that peculiar expression, which is composed 
of the terrible blended with the trifles of life, and which has 
caused such women to be christened Mega3ras. This time 
wounded pride exasperated her wrath. She cried in a voice 
which indignation rendered hoarse,— Cosette I ” 

Cosette started as if the earth had trembled beneath her 
and turned round. She gently laid the doll on the ground with 
a species of veneration mingled with despair : then, without 
taking her eyes off it, she clasped her hands, and, frightful to 
say of a child of her age, wrung them, and then burst into 
tears, a thing which none of ^he emotions of the day had 
caused. The traveller had risen from his chair. “ What is 
the matter ? ” he asked the landlady. 

‘‘ That wretch,” the landlady answered^ “ has had the auda- 
city to touch my children’s doll.” 

The man went straight to the street door opened it, and 
walked out ; the landlady took advantage of his absence to give 
Cosette a kick under the table, which made her scream. The 
door opened again, and the man reappeared, carrying in his 
hands the fabulous doll to which we have alluded, and which 
all the village children had been contemplating since the morn- 
ing. He placed it on its legs before Cosette, saying, — 



LES MISERABLES 


173 


Here, this is for you.” 

W4' must suppose that, during the hour he had been sitting 
in a reverie, he had confusedly noticed the toyman’s shop, 
which was so brilliantly illumined with lamps and candle, that 
it could be seen through the tap-room window like an aurora 
borealis. Cosette raised her eyes : she had looked at the man 
coming towards her with the doll, as if he were the sun ; she 
heard the extraordinary words, “ It is for you she looked at 
him, looked at the doll, then drew back sl^ly, and concealed 
herself entirely in a comer underJtho^ble. She did not cry, 
she did not speak, but looked as if she dared hardly breathe. 
The mother, petrified and dumb, began her conjectures again. 
“ Who is this man ? is he poor or a millionaire ? He is, per- 
haps, both, that is to say, a thief.” The landlord looked in turn 
at the doll and the traveller : he seemed to be sniffing round 
the man, as' he would have done round a money-bag. This 
only lasted for a second ; then he went up to his wife and 
whispered, — 

“ That machine costs at least thirty francs. No nonsense, 
crawl in the dust before the man.” 

“ My little Cosette,” the landlady said fawningly, “ this 
gentleman gives you the doll, so take it, for it is yours.” 

Cosette gazed at the wonderful doll with a sort of terror ; 
her face was still bathed in tears, but her eyes were beginning 
to fill, like the sky at dawn, with strange rays of joy. 

“ May I, madame ? ” 

“ Of course,” said her mistress, “ since this gentleman gives 
it to you.” 

“ Is it true, sir ? ” Cosette continued, “ is the lady really 
mine ? ” • 

The stranger’s eyes were full of tears, and he seemed to 
have reached that point of emotion when a man does not speak, 
in order that he msHy not weep. He nodded to Cosette, and 
placed the lady’s ” little hand in hers. Cosette quickly 
drew back her hand as if the lady’s burnt her, and looked down 
at the brick floor. We are compelled to add that at this 
moment she put her tongue out to an enormous length ; all at 
once she turned and passionately seized the doll. 

I will call her Catherine,” she said. 

It was a strange sight when Cosette’s rags met and held 
the doll’s ribbons and fresh muslins. 



174 


LES MISERABLES 


May I put her in a chair, madame I ” she continued. 

“ Yes, my child,” her mistress answered. 

She placed Catherine in a chair, and then sat down on the 
ground before her, motionless, without saying a word, and in a 
contemplative attitude. 

This unknown man, who had the air of a visitor sent by 
Providence to Cosette, was at the moment the person whom 
Madame Th4nardier most hated in the world ; still she must put 
a constraint on he^lf. This emotion was more than she could 
endure, accustomed toiJKsir^ulation though she was. She hast- 
ened to send her children to bed, and then asked the yellow 
man’s leave to send ofi Cosette, “ who had been very tired dur- 
ing the day," she added with a maternal air. Cosette went o£E 
to bed carrying Catherine in her atms. 

The man rested his elbow on the table, and resumed his 
thoughtful attitude ; the other travellers regarded him from 
a distance with a sort of respectful fear. Several hours passed, 
midnight mass was finished, the matin bell had been rung, the 
drinkers had gone away, the pot-house was closed, the fire was 
out in the tap-room, but the stranger still remained at the same 
spot and in the same posture. From time to time he changed 
the elbow on which ho was leaning, that was all ; but he had 
not uttered a syllable since Cosette w^t ofE to bed. The Th6- 
nardiers alone remained in the room through politeness and 
curiosity. 

“ Is he going to pass the night like that ? ” the landlady 
pouted. When it struck tw^o, she declared herself conquered, 
and said to her husband, “ I am off to bed ; you can do as you 
like.” At length the landlord doffed his cap, w'alked up gently, 
and ventured to say, — 

Do you not wish for repose, sir ? ” 

“ Why, you are right,” said the stranger, “ where is your 
stable ? ” • 

“ I will show you the way, sir,” Th^nardier replied with a 
smile. 

He took the candle ; the man fetched his stick and bundle, 
and Th6nardier led him to a room on the first floor, which was 
most luxurious, with its mahogany furniture, and the bed with 
its red cotton curtains. 

” What is this ? ” the traveller asked. 

“ Our own wedding bed-room,” the landlord replied ; “ my 



LES MISERABLES 175 

wife and I occupy another, and this room is only entered three 
or four times a year.” 

“ I should have preferred the stable,” the man said roughly. 
Th^nardier pretended not to hear this disagreeable reflection, 
but lit two new wax candles standing on the mantel-piece, and 
disappeared, without saying good evening, as he did not wish to 
treat with disrespectful cordiality a man whom he intended to 
flay royally the next moniing. The landlord went to his room, 
where his wife was in bed, but not asleep. ^ soon as she heard 
her husband’s footstep, she said^ 

” You know that I mean to turn Cosette out to-morrow ? ” 
Thenardier coldly answered, — 

“ How you go on.” 

When the landlord had withdrawn, the stranger sat down 
in an easy chair and remained pensive for a time ; then he took 
ofi his shoes, seized one of the candlesticks, and left the room, 
looking about him as if in search of something. He w^ent along 
a passage and reached the staircase ; here he heard a very gentle 
sound, like the breathing of a child. He followed this sound, 
and reached a triangular closet under the stairs, or, to speak 
more correctly, formed by the stairs themselves. Here, among 
old hampers and potsherds, in dust and cobwebs, there was a 
bed, if we may apply the term to a paillasse so rotten as to show 
the straw, and a blankets tom as to show the mattress. There 
were no sheets, and all this lay on the ground ; in this bed Co- 
sette was sleeping. The man walked up and gazed at her ; Co- 
sette was fast asleep and full dressed ; in winter she did not 
take oS her clothes, that she might be a little warmer. She was 
holding to her bosom the doll, whose large open eyes glistened 
in the darkness ; from time to time she gave a heavy sigh, as if 
about to awake, and pressed the doll almost convulsively in her 
arms. There was nothing by her bed-side but one of her 
wooden shoes. Thrtugh an open door close by a large dark 
room could be seen, tl^ough which the stranger entered. At 
the end, two little white beds were visible through a glass door, 
and which belonged to Eponine and Azelma. Behind this 
a wicker curtainless cradle was half hidden, in which slept the 
little boy who had been crying all the evening. 

The stranger conjectured that this room communicated 
with that of ike Thinardiers. He was about to return when his 
eye fell on the chinmey, one of those vast inn chimneys in 



176 


LES MISERABLES 


which there is always so little fire when there is a frost, and 
which are so cold to look at. In this chimney there was ilo fire, 
not even ashes ; but what there was in it attracted the travel- 
ler's attention. He saw two little child’s shoes of coquettish 
shape and unequal size ; and the traveller recollected the 
graceful and immemorial custom of children who place their 
shoe in the chimney on Christmas night, in order to obtain some 
glittering present from their good fairy in the darkness. Epo- 
nine and Azelma^jad not failed in this observance. The tra- 
veller bent down ; l;lni^ir 3 t.. that is, the mother, had already 
paid her visit, and in each shoe a handsome ten-sous piece 
could be seen shining. The man rose and was going away, 
when he observed another object in the darkest corner of the 
hearth ; Re looked at it, and recognized a hideous wooden shoe, 
half broken and covered with ashes and dried mud. It was 
Cosette’s ; with the touching confidence of children who may 
be disappointed, but are never discouraged, she had also placed 
her shoe in the chimney. Hope in a child that has never known 
aught but despair, is a sublime and affecting thing. There 
was nothing in this shoe ; but the stranger felt in his pocket 
and laid a louis d’or in it ; then he crept noiselessly back to 
his bed -room. 

The next morning, almost two hours before daybreak, the 
traveller appeared in the taproom, carrying his stick and 
bundle. 

“ Up so 8^ on ? ” the landlady said, “ are you going to 
leave us already, sir ? ” 

“ Yes, madame, I am going ; what do I owe you ? ” 

The landlady, without replying, handed him a most ex- 
orbitant bill. He opened and looked at it, but his attention 
was visibly elsewhere. 

“ Do you do a good business here ? ” he asked. 

Tolerably well, sir,” the landlady aifswered, stupefied at 
not seeing any other explosion ; then, she went on with an 
elegiac and lamentable accent, — 

” Oh, sir, times are very bad ! and then there are so few 
respectable people in these parts. It is lucky we have now 
and then generous and rich travellers like yourself, sir, for 
the expenses are so high. Why, that little girl costs us our 
eyes out of our head.” 

•• What little girl ? ” 



LES MISEBABLES 


177 


“Why, you know, Cosette, the Lark, as they call her 
hereabout.” 

The man replied, in a voice which he strove to render 
careless, and in which there was a tremor, — 

“ And suppose you were freed of her ? ” 

The landlady’s red and violent face was illumined by a 
hideous* grin. 

“ Ah, sir, my good sir, take her, keep her, carry her ofi, 
sugar her, stufi her with truffles, eat her, c^ink her, and may 
all the Saints in Paradise bles^yoi}.--&lt;^ou really will take 
her away at once ? ” 

“ At once ; call her.” 

“ Cosette,” the landlady shouted. 

“ In the meanwhile,” the man continued, “ I will pay my 
dGore ; how much is it ? ” 

He took a glance at the bill, and could not restrain a start 
of surprise. He looked at the landlady and said, slowly, 
“ Twenty-three francs ! ” 

The stranger laid five five-franc pieces on the table. 

“ Go and fetch the girl,” he said. 

At this moment Thenardier walked into the middle of the 
oom, and said, — 

“ The gentleman owes twenty-six sous.” 

“ Twenty-six sous ! the wife exclaimed- 

“ Twenty sous for the bed-room,” Th6nardier continued 
coldly, “ and six for the supper. As for the girl, I must talk 
a little with the gentleman first. Leave us, wife.” 

So soon as they were alone, Thenardier offered the traveller 
a chair ; he sat down, Thenardier remained standing and his face 
assumed a singular expression of kindliness and simplicity. 

“ I must teU you,” he said, “ sir, that I adore the child.” 

The stranger looked at him fixedly. 

“What child?”# 

“ Why, our little Cosette ! don’t you wish to take her from 
us ? Well, I speak frankly, I cannot consent. I should miss 
the child, for I have known her since she was a baby. She 
has neither father nor mother, and I brought her up ; and I 
have bread both for her and for me. Look you, 1 am fond 
of the child ; affection grows on you ; and though my wife 
is quick, she loves her too. She is like our own child, and I 
want to hear her prattle in the house.” 



178 


LES MISEBABLES 


. The stranger still looked at him fixedly, as he continued, 
— Excuse me, sir, but a child can’t be given like that t© the 
first passer-by. Supposing that I let her go and sacrificed 
myself, I should like to Imow where she is going, and not 
lose her out of sight ; I should wish to go and see her now 
and then, to convince the child that her foster-father is watch- 
ing over her. I don’t even know your name. I ought at 
least to see some scrap of paper, a passport, and so 
on. ^ 

The stranger, witlicmt casing to fix on him that look 
which pierces to the bottom of the conscience, said in a grave 
firm voice, — 

“ Monsieur Thenardier, a man does not require a passport 
to go four leagues from Paris ; and if *I take Cosette aw^ay, I 
take her away, that is all. You will not know my name, my 
residence, or where she is, and it is my intention that she 
shall never see you again. I break the string that she has 
round her foot, and away she flies ; does that suit you ? yes 
or no ? ” 

Thenardier understood that he had to do with a very 
strong man. On the previous evening, while drinking, smok- 
ing, and singing, not a gesture or movement of the yellow- 
coated man escaped him, and even before the stranger so 
clearly manifested his interest in Coslfette, Thenardier divined 
it. He surprised the profound glances of this old man which 
constantly reverted to the child. Why this interest 1 Who 
was this man ? wrhy was his attire so wretched when his 
purse was so full ? . These questions he asked himself, and 
could not answer them, and they irritated him ; he reflected 
on them the whole night. He could not be Cosette’s father ; 
was he her grandfather 1 Then, why did he not make himself 
known at once ? When a man has a claim, he proves it, and 
this man evidently had no claim on Cosetie. Thfaiardier was 
one of those men who judge of a situation at a glance, and 
considered that it was the moment to advance straight and 
rapidly. He behaved like great captains at that decisive in- 
stant which they alone can recognize, and suddenly unmasked 
his battery. 

** Sir,” he said, I want one thousand five hundred francs.” 

The stranger drew from his side-pocket an old black lea- 
thern portfolio, and took from it three bank notes which he 



LES MISEBABLES 179 

laid on the table ; then he placed his large thumb on tho 
notes, and said to the landlord, — 

“ Bring Cosette here.” 

While this was taking place, what was Cosette about ? 
On waking, she ran to her sabot and found the gold coin in 
it. Go^tte was dazzled, she knew not what a gold piece 
was, she had never seen one, and she hurriedly hid it in her 
pocket, as if she had stolen it. She felt it was really hers, 
she guessed whence the gift came, but she experienced a feel- 
ing of joy full of fear. These magnifi^cfi? things did not seem 
to her real, — the doll frightened her, the gold coin frightened 
her, and she trembled vaguely at this magnificence. The 
stranger alone did not frighten her ; on the contrary, he re- 
assured her since the previous evening. Cosette no longer 
felt afraid of her mistress, for she was no longer alone ; she 
had some one by her side. She had set about her daily work 
very quickly, and the louis, which she had in the same pocket 
from which the fifteen-sous piece fell on the previous night, 
caused her thoughts to stray. It was during one of these 
contemplations that her mistress came to her ; by her hus- 
band's order she had come to fetch the child, and extraordin- 
ary to say, did not strike her, or even abuse her. 

“ Cosette," she saic^^ almost gently, “ come directly." 

A moment after, Cosette entered the tap-room. The 
stranger took his bundle and untied it ; it contained a com- 
plete mourning dress for a child of seven years of age. 

" My dear," the man said, “ take these and go and dress 
yourself quickly." 

Day was breaking, when those inhabitants of Montfcrmeil 
who were beginning to open their doors saw a poorly-clad 
man and a girl, holding a large doll, going along the Paris 
road toward Livry. No one knew the man, and few recog- 
nized Cosette in ffer new dress. Cosette was going away. 
With whom ? where to ! she did not know. All she un- 
derstood was that she was leaving Th^nardier's pot-house be- 
hind her ; no one thought of saying good-bye to her, or she 
to any one. Poor gentle being, whose heart up to this hour 
had only been compressed ! 

Madame Th6nardier, according to her habit, had left her 
husband to act, and anticipated grand results. When the 
man and Cosette had left, Th4nardier let a good quarter of 



180 


LES MISEBABLES 


an hour elapse, then took her on one side, and showed her 
the fifteen hundred francs. * 

“ Is that all ? she said. 

It was the first time since her marriage that she ventured 
to criticize an act of her master, and the blow went home. 

“ You are right,” he said, “ and I am an ass. Give me my 
hat.” He thrust the three notes into his pocket and went 
out, but he made a mistake and first turned to the right. 
Some neighbours sof whom he inquired put him on the right 
track, and he walkeS^^ng at a great rate, and soliloquizing. 

“ The man is evidently a millionaire dressed in yellow, 
and I am an animal. He gave first twenty sous, then five 
francs, then fifty francs, then fifteen hundred francs, and all 
with the same facility. He would fiave given fifteen thou- 
sand francs ! but I shall catch him up.” And, then, the 
bundle of clothes prepared beforehand was singular, and 
there was a mystery behind it. Now mysteries must not be 
let go when you hold them, for the secrets of the rich are 
sponges full of gold, if you know how to squeeze them. All 
these thoughts whirled about his brain. “ I am an animal,” 
he said. On leaving Montfermeil and reaching the angle 
formed by the Lagny road, you can see it running for a long 
distance before you upon the plateau. On getting to this 
point he calculated that he should see the man and child, 
and looked as far as he could, but saw nothing. He inquired 
again, and passers-by told him that the people he was looking 
for had gone in the direction of Gagny wood. He followed 
them, for, though they had the start of him, a child walks 
slowly. 

In fact, when he had passed* the ponds and cut across the 
wide turfed glade which covers the old water way of the 
Abbey de Chelles, he noticed under a shrub a hat, on which 
he built up many conjectures. The shruB was low, and Th6- 
nardier saw that the man and Cosette were sitting under it. 
The man had sat down there to let the child rest a little, and 
the tavern-keeper dodged round the shrub and suddenly ap- 
peared before those whom he was seeking. 

Excuse me, sir,” he said, panting, but here are your 
fifteen hundred francs.” 

The man raised his eyes. 

** What is the meaning of this ? 



LES MISEBABLES 


181 


Thenardier answered respectfully, — 

“ I]b means, sir, that I am going to take Cosette back/' 

The child started, and clung to the man : the latter an- 
swered, looking fixedly at Thenardier, and leaving a space be- 
tween each word, — 

“ You — ^take — Cosette — ^back ? " 

“ Yes,, sir, I do : and I must tell you that I have reflected. 
The truth is, that I have no right to give her to you. Look 
you, I am an honest man : the little one does not belong 
to me, but to her mother, who intrusj^^^^ ter to me, and I 
can only give her back to her mother. You will say to me, 

‘ Her mother is dead.' Good. In that case, I can only sur- 
render Cosette to a person who brings me a written authority 
from her mother. That is clear enough.” 

The man, without answering, felt in his pocket, and The- 
nardier saw the portfolio with the bank-notes reappear. He 
gave a start of joy. 

“ Good,” ho thought, “ I have him, he is going to bribe me.” 

Before opening the portfolio the traveller looked around 
him ; the place was utterly deserted, and there was not a 
soul in the wood or the valley. The man opened the pocket- 
book and took out, not the handful of bank-notes which The- 
nardier anticipated, but a simple sheet of paper, which he 
opened and handed to the landlord, saying, — You are right : 
read.” 

Thenardier took the paper and read. 

“ M. sur M., March 25 , 1823. 

“ Monsieur Thenardier, — ^You will hand over Cosette to 
the bearer, who will pay up all Jjttle matters. Yours, Fantine.” 

“ Do you know the signature 1 ” the man continued. 

It was really FanJ^ine's, and Thenardier recognized it, and 
had no reply. The man added, 

“ You can keep that paper as your discharge.” 

Thenardier folded it up neatly, and growled , — ** The sig- 
nature is tolerably well imitated. Well, be it so, but the 
expenses must be paid, and there is a heavy sum owing me.” 

The man rose, and said as he dusted his threadbare cuff, 
— Monsieur Thenardier, in January the mother calculated 
that she owed you 120 francs ; in February you sent in an 



182 


LES MISERABLES 


account of 600 francs ; you received 300 at the end of that 
month, and 300 more early in March. Since then nine mouths 
have elapsed at the agreed on price of 15 francs, which makes 
135 francs. You had received 100 franca too much, so this 
leaves 35 francs owing you, and I have just given you 1500." 

Th6nardier felt just like the wolf when it is caught by the 
leg in a steel trap. 

He behaved like the wolf : he shook himself : impudence 
had carried him through before now. 

“ Monsieur I d3n^\t^now your name," he said boldly, and 
putting off his respectful manner, “ if you do not give me 
3000 francs I shall take Cosette back.'* 

The stranger said quietly, “ Come, Cosette." He took the 
child by his left hand, and with the right picked up his stick. 
Thenardier noticed the enormity of the stick and the solitude 
of the spot ; the man buried himself in the wood, leaving the 
landlord motionless and confounded. As he walked away The- 
nardier regarded his broad shoulders and enormous fists, then 
his eye fell on his own thin arms. I must have been a fool," 
he said, " not to bring my gun, as I was going to the chase." 

Still the tavern-keeper did not give in. “ I will know 
where he goes," he said, and began following them at a dis- 
tance. The man led Cosette in the direction of Bondy : he 
walked slowly, with drooping head a^d in a pensive attitude. 
From time to time he turned round and looked to see whether 
he were followed, and suddenly perceived Th6nardier. He 
drew Cosette into a clump of trees, in which they both dis- 
appeared. The closeness of the trees compelled Thenardier 
to draw nearer to them, and when the man was at the thick- 
est part he turned round and«saw Th6nardier, although the 
latter tried to conceal himself behind a stem. The man gave 
him a restless glance, then tossed his head and continued his 
walk. Thenardier followed him, but, a^ter going some two 
hundred yards, the man turned and looked at lum so men- 
acingly that the landlord thought it useless " to go any 
further, and turned back. 

At nightfall Jean Valjean re-entered Paris, and got into 
a cabriolet which conveyed him to the Esplanade of the Ob- 
servatory. Here he got down, and the pair proceeded in the 
darkness toward the Boulevard de I’Hdpital. The day had 
been strange and full of emotions for Cosette : she felt tired, 



LES MISERABLES 


183 


and Jean Valjean perceived it by her hand, which dragged 
mora and more. He took her on his back, and Cosette, 
without letting loose of Catherine, laid her head on his shoulder 
and fell asleep. 

Forty years ago the solitary walker who ventured into the 
lost districts of the Salpetriere, and went up the Boulevard 
as far sms the Barriere d'ltaUe, reached a quarter where it 
might be said that Paris disappeared. It was indeed a boule- 
vard of the great city, but more ferocious^ at night than a 
forest, more gloomy by day than a cem^^tery. It was the old 
quarter of the Marche-aux-Chevaiix. The rambler, if he risked 
himself beyond the tottering walls of the market, if he even 
consented to pass the Rue du Petit-banquicr, reached the 
corner of the Rue des Vignes St. Marcel, a but little known 
latitude, after leaving on his right a garden protected by 
high walls, next a field in which stood tan mills, resembling 
gigantic beaver dams, next an enclosure encumbered with 
planks, tree-stumps, sawdust, and chips, on the top of which 
a large dog barked ; then a long low wall, all in ruins, with 
a small, decrepit building, on which could be read in large 
letters Stick no Bills. Here, close to a foundry, and be- 
tween two garden walls, could be seen, at the time of which 
we write, a poor house, which, at the first glance, seemed 
small as a cottage, but* was in reality large as a cathedral. 
It turned its gable end to the public thoroughfare, and hence 
came its apparent smallness ; nearly the whole house was 
concealed, and only a door and a window could be perceived. 

This house was only one storey high, On examining it, 
the first fact that struck you was that the door could never 
have been other than that of« low lodging-house, while the 
window, had it been carved in stone instead of made of stuc- 
co, might have belonged to a mansion. The door was nothing 
but a collection ofc worm-eaten planks, clumsily held to- 
gether by roughly-planed cross beams. It opened imme- 
diately on a steep staircase, muddy, dirty, and dusty, of the 
same width as itself, which could be seen from the street 
mounting steep as a ladder, and disappearing in the gloom 
between two wallai The top of the clumsy opening in which 
the door stood was masked by a thin deal plank, in which a 
triangular hole had been cut. On the inside of the door a 
brush dipped in ink had clumsily traced No. 52, while over 



184 


LES MISEBABLES 


^he skylight the same brush had painted No. 50, so people 
hesitated. Dust-coloured rags hung like a drapery ovcsr the 
triangular skylight. The window was wide, tolerably lofty, 
filled with large panes of glass, and protected by Venetian 
shutters ; but these panes had various wounds, at once con- 
cealed and betrayed by an ingenious bandage of paper, and 
the Venetian shutters, broken and hanging from their binges, 
threatened passers-by more than they protected the inhabit- 
ants. The horizgntal screen-boards were wanting here and 
there, and these places had been filled up with boards nailed 
on perpendicularly ; so that* the affair began by being a Ve- 
netian screen, and ended by being a shutter. This door, 
which had an unclean look, and tUs window, which looked 
honest, tliough fallen in the world, produced the effect of two 
beggars walking side by side with two different faces under 
the same rags, the one having always been a mendicant, while 
the other had once been a gentleman. The staircase led to a 
very large building, wliich resembled a shed that had been 
converted into a house. This building had, as its intestinal 
tube, a long passage, upon which opened, right and left, com- 
partments of various ^mensions, habitable at a pinch, and 
more like booths than cells. A portion of this building has 
been recently demolished, but what still remains wilt allow 
an idea to be formed of what it was.*^ The whole affair is not 
more than a century old ; one hundred years are the youth 
of a church and the old age of a human abode. The postman 
called this house No. 5Q-52, but it was known in the quarter 
by the name of M^ison Gorbeau. 

Jean Valjean stopped before No. 50-52. He felt in liis 
pocket, took out a latch-key, opened and carefully shut the 
door again, and went up-stairs, still carrying Cosette on his 
back. When he reached the landing he took from his pocket 
a key, with which he opened another door. The room he 
entered was a sort of spacious garret, furnished with a mat- 
tress laid on the ground, a table, and a few chairs. There 
was a burning stove in the corner, and the boulevard lamp 
faintly illumined this poor interior. At the end of the room 
was a closet with a poor bedstead, to which Jean Valjean 
carried the child and laid her on it, without awaking her. 
He struck a light and lit a candle, — all this had been pre- 
pared on the previous day, — and he then began gazing at 



LES MISEBABLES 


185 


0osette with a look full of ecstasy, in which the expression , 
of kindness and tenderness almost attained delirium. The 
little girl, with that calm confidence which only appertains 
to extreme strength and extreme weakness, had fallen asleep 
without knowing with whom she was, and continued to sleep 
without knowing where she was. Jean Valjean bent down 
and kissed the child's hand. Nine months previously he had 
kissed her mother's hand, who had also just fallen asleep, and 
the same painful, religious, poignant feeling .filled his heart. 
He knelt down by the side of C^sette's bed. 

Long after daybreak the child was still asleep. A pale 
beam of the December sun filtered through the window and 
made large strips of light and shadow on the ceiling. Suddenly 
a heavily-laden wagon, passing along the boulevard, shook 
the house like a blast of wind, and made it tremble from top 
to bottom. 

“ Yes, madame," Cosette cried, waking with a start, ** I 
am coming directly." 

And she jumped out of bed her eyelids still half closed 
by the weight of sleep, and stretched out her arms to a cor- 
ner of the wall. 

Oh, goodness, my broom ! " she said. 

She opened her eyes thoroughly, and saw Jean Valjean's 
smiling face. * 

Ah, it is true," the child said. “ Good morning, sir." 

Children accept at once and familiarly joy and happiness, 
for they are themselves by nature happiness and joy. Cosette 
saw Catherine at the foot of her bed, caught her up, and 
while playing, asked Jean Valjean a hundred questions : — 
" Where was she ? was Paris laj^e ? was Madame Thenardier 
a long way off ? and would she never return ? " etc. etc. etc. 
All at once she exclaimed, “ How pretty it is here I ” 

It was a frightful diole, but she felt herself free. 

Must I sweep ? " she at length continued. 

“ Play," said Jean Valjean. 

The day passed in this way, and Cosette, not feeling any 
anxiety at understanding notUng, was inexpressibly happy 
between her doll and tl^ good man. 



186 


LES MISEBABLES 


CHAPTER IX 

Jean Valjean had selected his asylum well. The room 
he occupied with Cosette was one whose window looked out 
on the boulevard, and as it was the only one of the sort in 
the house, he had not to fear the curiosity of neighbours, 
either in front or on his side. The ground-floor of 50-52, a 
sort of rickety pentice, was employed as a tool-house by 
nursery-gardenefs, and had no communication with the first 
floor. The latter, as we h£ive said, contained several rooms, 
and a few garrets, one of which alone was occupied by the 
old woman who looked after Jean Valjean. It was this old 
woman who was known as the chief lodger, and who in reality 
performed the duties of porter, that let him the room on 
Christmas day. He had represented himself as an annuitant 
ruined by the Spanish bonds, who meant to live there w^ith 
his little daughter. He paid six months’ rent in advance, 
and requested the old woman to furnish the room in the way 
we have seen, and it was this woman who lit the stove and 
prepared everything on the evening of their arrival. 

Weeks passed away, and these two beings led a happy life in 
this wretched garret. Teaching Cosette to read, and letting her 
play, almost constituted Jean Valjean’s entire life ; and then, 
he spoke to her about her mother, ind made her play. She 
called him ” father," and knew him by no other name. He 
spent hours in watching her dress and undress her doll, and 
listening to her prattle. From this moment life appeared to 
him full of interest. He saw a future illumined by Cosette, 
as by a delicious light ; and as the best men are not exempt 
from a selfish thought, he sifcd to himself at times joyfully 
that she would be ugly. 

Jean Valjean was so prudent as never to go out by day ; 
every evening he walked out for an hour or two, sometimes 
alone, but generally with Cosette, in the most retired streets, 
and entering the churches at night-fall. He walked along 
holding her by the hand, and talking pleasantly with her, for 
Cosette’s temper turned to be extremely gay. 

The old woman cleaned, cooked, and bought food for them ; 
they lived quietly, always having a little &amp;e, but as if they 
were very poor. He still wore his yellow coat, black breeches, 
an old hat, and in the streets he was taken for a poor man. 



LES MISEBABLES 


187 


It happened at times that charitable women turned and gave • 
him rf sou, which Jean Valjean accepted with a deep bow. 
It happened at times also that he met some wretch asking for 
charity ; in such a case he looked behind him to see that no 
one was watching, furtively approached the beggar, gave him 
money, now and then silver, and hurried away. This entailed 
inconveniences, for people began to know him in the district 
under the name of the alms-giving beggar. The old chief 
lodger, a spiteful creature, full of envy and Uncharitableness 
toward her neighbours, watched iim closely, though he did 
not suspect it. One day this spy saw Jean Valjean go into 
one of the uninhabited rooms in a way that seemed to her 
peculiar. She followed him with the stealthy step of an old 
cat, and was able to watch him, herself unseen, through the 
crack of the door, to which Jean Valjean turned his back, 
doubtless as a greater precaution. She saw him take out of 
his pocket a pair of scissors, needle, and thread, and then 
begin ripping up the lining of his coat, and pull out a piece 
of yellow paper, which he unfolded. The old woman recog- 
nized with horror that it was a thousand franc note, the 
second or third she had seen in her life, and she fled in terror. 
A moment after Jean Valjean addressed her, and requested 
her to change the note fgr him, adding that it was his half- 
year's dividend, which he had received on the previous day. 
“ When ? " the old woman thought ; “ he did not go out till 
six in the evening, and the Bank is certainly not open at that 
hour." The old woman went to change the note and made 
her conjectures; the amount of money being considerably 
multiplied afiorded a grand topic of conversation for the gos- 
sips of the neighbourhood. ^ 

A few days after it happened that Jean Valjean, in his 
shirt sleeves, was chopping wood in the passage, and the old 
woman was in his robm cleaning up. She was alone, for Co- 
sette was admiring the wood-chopping. She saw the coat 
hanging on a nail, and investigated it. The lining had been 
sewn up again, but the good woman felt it carefully, and 
fancied she could notice folds of paper between the cloth and 
the lining. More bank notes, of course ! She also noticed 
that there were all sorts of things in the pockets ; not only 
the needles, scissors, and thread she had seen, but a large 
portfolio, a big clasp knife, and, most suspicious fact of all, 



188 


L£S MISDBABLES 


several differentrcolonred wigs. Each pocket of this coat 
seemed to be a species of safeguard against unexpected events. 

The inhabitants of the house thus reached the last days 
of winter. 

There was near S. Medard's church a poor man who usually 
sat on the edge of a condemned well, to whom Jean Valjean 
liked to give alms. The persons who envied this beggar said 
that he belonged to the police, and he w^as an ex-beadle 
seventy-five y^lars of age, who was constantly telling his 
beads. One evening Jean V aljean went up to him and placed 
his usual charity in his hand, and the beggar suddenly raised 
his eyes, looked fixedly at Jean Valjean, and then let his 
head hang again. This movement was like a fiash, but Jean 
Valjean gave a start ; he fancied that he had seen by the 
flickering light of the lamp, not the placid and devout face 
of the old beadle, but a terrifying and familiar face. He 
recoiled, terrified and petrified, not daring to breathe, staring 
at the beggar, who had let his head fall, and did not appear 
to know that he was there. At this strange moment, an in- 
stinct, perhaps that of self-preservation, urged Valjean not 
to utter a syllable. The beggar was of the same height, wore 
the same rags, and looked as he did every day. ** Stufi,^’ said 
Valjean, ** I am mad, dreaming ; it is impossible ! And he 
went home sorely troubled in mind. He hardly dared confess 
to himself that the face which he fancied he had seen was 
Javert'sl' At night, on reflecting, he regretted that he had 
not spoken to the man, and made him raise his head a second 
time. The next evening he returned and found the beggar 
at his seat. “ Good day, mj man,” Jean Valjean said reso- 
lutely, as he gave him a sou. The beggar raised his head and 
replied in a complaining voice, “ Thank you, my good gentle- 
man.” It was certainly the old beadle. Jean Valjean felt 
fully reassured, and began laughing. ^ How on earth could 
I have thought that it was Javert ? why, am I now to grow 
wool-gathering ? ” and he thought no more of it. 

A few days later, at about eight in the evening, he was 
giving Cosette a spelling lesson, when he heard the house 
door open and then close again. This appeared to him sin- 
gular, for the old woman, who alone lived in the house beside 
himself, always went to bed at nightfall to save candle, Jean 
Valjean made Ck&gt;sette a sign to be silent, for he heard some 



LES MI8EBABLES 


189 


one coming up’Stairs. The footstep was heavy and sounded 
like a jnan's, but the old woman wore thick shoes, and no- 
thing so closely resembles a man^s footstep as an old woman's. 
After a long interval, hearing nothing more, he turned noise- 
lessly, and, on looking at his door, saw a light through the 
key-hole, which formed a sort of a sinister star in the black- 
ness of the. door and the wall. There was evidently some one 
there, holding a candle in his hand and listening. A few 
minutes passed, and then the light went away : still he did 
not hear the sound of footsteps, which seemed to indicate 
that the man who came to listen had taken o£E his shoes. 
Jean Valjean threw himself full-dressed on his bed, and could 
not close his eyes all night. At day-break, when he was just 
yielding with fatigue, he was aroused by the creaking of a 
door which opened into a room at the end of the passage, and 
then heard the same footstep which had ascended the stairs 
the previous evening drawing nearer. He put his eye to the 
key-hole, which was rather large, in the hope of seeing the 
man who had listened at his door over-night. It was really 
a man, who this time passed Jean Val jean's door without 
stopping. The passage was still too dark for him to distin- 
guish his face ; but when the man reached the stair-case a 
ray of light from outside fell upon him, and Jean Valjean 
saw his back perfectly. He was a tall man, dressed in a long 
coat, with a cudgel under his arm; and he was very like 
Javert. Valjean might have tried to see him on the boule- 
vard through his window, but for that purpose he mifet have 
opened it, and that he dared not do. It was plain that this 
man came in with a key and was quite at home. Who gave 
him this key ? what did it mean ? At seven o'clock, when 
the old woman came to clean up, Jean Valjean gave her a 
piercing glance, but did not question her. The good woman 
was as calm as usual, /ind wl^e sweeping she said to him, — 

** I suppose you heard some one come in last night, sir ? 

At that age, and on that boulevard, eight in the evening 
is the blackest night. 

“ Yes, I remember," he said, with the most natural ac- 
cent : “ who was it ? " 

A new lodger in the house." 

" What is his name ? " 

“ I forget ; Dumont or Daumont, something like that." 



190 


LES MISERABLES 


And what may he be ? ” 

The old woman looked at him with her little ferret eyes, 
and answered, — 

“ He lives on his property, like yourself.” 

Perhaps she meant nothing, but Jean Valjean fancied that 
he could detect a meaning. When the old woman had gone 
off he made a rouleau of some hundred francs which he had 
in a chest of drawers and put it in his pocket. Whatever 
precautions he .took to keep the money from rattling, a five- 
franc piece fell from his hand and rolled noisily on the floor. 

At nightfall he w^ent down and looked attentively all along 
the boulevard : he saw nobody, and it seemed utterly de- 
serted. It is true that some one might have been concealed 
behind the trees. He went up again, and said to Cosette, 

Come ! ” He took her hand, and toth left the house to- 
gether. 

Jean Valjean at once left the boulevard and entered the 
streets, making as many turnings as he could, and at times 
retracing liis steps, to make sure that he was not followed. 
This manmuvie is peculiar to the tracked deer, and on ground 
where traces are left it possesses the advantage of deceiving 
huntsmen and dogs ; in venery it is called a “ false reimbush- 
ment.” The moon was at its full, and Jean Valjean was not 
sorry for it, for as the luminary wSs still close to the horizon 
it formed large patches of light and shade in the streets. Val- 
jean was able to slip along the houses and walls on the dark 
side and watch the bright side ; perhaps he did not reflect 
sufficiently that the dark side escaped his notice. Cosette 
walked on without asking questions ; she felt in safety, as she 
was with him. He was resolved not to return to No. 60-62, 
and, like the animal driven from its lair, he sought a hole in 
which to hide himself until he could find a lodging. Jean Val- 
jean described several labyrinths in the QuartierMoufietard, 
which was as fast asleep as if it were still under mediaeval dis- 
cipline and the yoke of the Curfew, and combined several 
streets into a clever strategic system. There were lodging- 
houses where he now was, but he did not enter them, as he did 
not find anything to suit him, and he did not suppose for a 
moment that if persons were on his trail they had lost it again. 

As the clock of St. Etienne du Mont struck eleven he passed 
the police office at No. 14, in the Rue de Pontoise. A few 



LES MISEBABLES 


191 


minutes after, the instinct to which we have referred made . 
him look round, and he distinctly saw, by the office lamp which 
betrayed them, three men, who were following him rather 
closely, pass in turn under this lamp on the dark side of the 
street. One of these men turned into the office, and another, 
who was in front, appeared to him decidedly suspicious. 

He made a circuit, and eventually turned into the Hue des 
Postes. There is an open space here, where the Bollin College 
now stands, and into which the Rue Neuve St. Genevieve runs. 

We need hardly say that the Bue Neuve St. Genevieve is 
an old street, and that a post-chaise does not pass along the 
Rue des Postes once in ten years. 

The moon threw a bright light upon this open space, and 
Jean Yaljean hid himself in a doorway, calculating that if the 
men were still following him he could not fail to have a good 
look at them as they crossed the open space. In fact, three 
minutes had not elapsed when the men appeared. There were 
now four of them, all tall, dressed in long brown coats and 
round hats, and holding large sticks in their hands. They 
stopped in the centre of the square, and formed a group as if 
consulting, and apparently undecided. The leader turned and 
pointed with his right hand in the direction Jean Yaljean had 
taken, while another seemed to be pointing ^dth some degree 
of obstinacy in the opposite direction. At the moment when 
the first man turned the moon lit up his face brilliantly, and 
Jean Yaljean recognized Javert perfectly. 

Uncertainty ceased for Jean Y'aljean ; but fortunately it 
still lasted with the men. He took advantage of their hesita- 
tion, for it was time lost by them and gained by him. He left 
the gateway in which he was collcealcd, and pushed on along 
the Rue des Postes toward the region of the Jardin des Plantes. 
As Cosette was beginning to feel tired, he took her in his 
arms and carried her. No one was passing, and the lamps 
had not been lit on account of the moon. 

He reached the Austerlitz Bridge, where a toll stUl existed 
at the time, and he handed the tollman a sou. 

“ It is two sous,*' said the man ; ‘‘ you are carrying a child 
who can walk, so you must pay for two.** 

He paid, though greatly vexed that his passing had given 
rise to any remark. A heavy wain was passing the river at 
the saihe time as himself, and also proceeding to the right bank. 



192 


LES MISERABLES 


This was useful for him, as he could cross the whole of the 
bridge in its shadow. On reaching the arches of the ^)ridge, 
Cosette, whose feet were numbed, asked to be put down ; he 
did so, and took her by the hand again. After crossing the 
bridge, he saw a little to his right building-yards, towards 
which he proceeded. In order to reach them he must cross 
an open brilliantly-lighted space, but he did not hesitate. 
His pursuers were evidently thrown out, and Jean Valjean 
believed himseif out of danger ; he might be looked for, but he 
was not followed. A little- street, the Rue du Chemin Vert 
Saint Antoine, ran between two timber-yards ; it was narrow, 
dark, and seemed expressly made for him, but before entering 
it he looked back. From the spot where he was he could see 
the whole length of the Bridge of Austerlitz ; four shadows 
had just come upon it, and were walking toward the right bank. 
Jean Valjean gave a start like a recaptured animal ; one 
hope was left him ; it was that the four men had not been 
upon the bridge at the moment when he crossed the large 
illumined space with Cosette. In that case, by entering the 
little street before him, he might escape, if he could reach the 
timber-yards, kitchen-gardens, fields, and land not yet built 
on. He fancied that he could trust to this little silent street, 
and entered it. 

After going three hundred yards he came to a spot where 
the road formed two forks, and Jean Valjean had before him, 
as it w'ere, the two branches of a Y. Which should he choose ? 
He did not hesitate, but took the right one, because the other 
ran towards the faubourg, that is to say, inhabited parts, while 
the right branch went in the direction of the country, or 
deserted parts. Still they did not walk very rapidly, for Cosette 
checked Jean Valjean’s pace, and hence he began carrying her 
again, and Cosette laid her head on his shoulder and did not 
say a word. At times he looked back, while careful to keep 
on the dark side of the street. The first twice or thrice that he 
turned he saw nothing, the silence was profound, and he con- 
tinued his walk with a little more confidence. All at once, on 
turning suddenly, he fancied that he saw something moving on 
the dark part of the street which he had just passed, He 
rushed forward rather than walked, hoping to find some side 
lane by which he could escape, and once again break his trail. 
He reached a wall, which, however, did not render further 



LES MISEBABLES 


193 


progress impossible, for it was a wall skirting a cross lane, into 
wliicb,the street JeaniValjean had entered ran. Here he must* 
make his mind up again whether to turn to the right or left. 
He looked to the right ; the lane ran for some distance between 
buildings which were bams or sheds, and then stopped. The 
end of the blind alley, a tall white wall, was distinctly visible. 
He looked to the left ; on this side the lane was open, and at a 
distance of about two hundred yards fell into a street, of which 
it was an aflluent. On that side safety lay. ^t the moment 
when Jean Valjean turned to his left in order to reach this 
street he saw at the angle formed by the street and the lane a 
species of black and motionless statue; it was evidently a man 
posted there to prevent him passing. Jean Valjean fell back. 

Half a century back, in that popular language all made up 
of traditions which insists on calling the Institute “ les Quatre 
Nations,” and the Opera Comique “ Feydeau,” the precise 
spot where Jean Valjean now stood was called “le Petit Pic- 
pus.” Little Piepus, which by the way scarce existed, and 
was never more than the outline of a quarter, had almost the 
monastic look of a Spanish town. The streets were scarce 
paved, and hardly any houses lined them ; excepting two or 
three streets, to which we arc about to refer, all was wall and 
solitude. There was not a shop or a vehicle, scarce a candle 
lighted in the windows, and every light was put out by ten 
o’clock. The quarter consisted of gardens, convents, timber- 
yards, and kitchen-grounds, and there were a few low houses 
with walls as lofty as themselves. Such was the quarter in the 
last century. Thirty years ago this quarter was disappearing 
under the erasure of new buildings, and now it is entirely 
obliterated. ^ 

Little Piepus had what we have just called a Y of streets 
formed by the Rue du Chemin Vert St. Antoine dividing into 
two branches, the left-hand one taking the name of the Petite 
Rue Piepus, and the right-hand that of Rue Polonceau, The 
two branches of the Y were joined at their summit by a sort of 
cross bar called Rue Droit-mur. Any one who, coming from 
the Seine, reached the end of Rue Polonceau, had on his left 
Rue Droit-mur, turning sharply at a right angle, in front of him 
the wall of that street, and on his right a truncated prolongation 
of the Rue Droit-mur called the Cul-de-sac Gemot. 

It was here that Jean Valjean was ; as we said, on perceiv- 



194 


LES MISEBABLES 


ing the black shadow, standing on watch at the corner of the 
Rue Dioit-mur and the Petite Bue Picpus, he fell back, for he 
was doubtless watched hj this phantom. What was to be 
done ? He had no time to retrograde, for what he had seen 
moving in the shadow for a few moments previously in his rear 
was of course Javert and his squad. Javert was probably 
already at the beginning of the street at the end of which Jean 
Valjean was, and had doubtless sent one of his men to guard the 
outlet. He examined the blind alley, that was barred ; he ex- 
amined the Rue Picpus, a sejitry was there. To advance was 
falling into this man’s clutches; to fall back was throwing 
himself into Javert’s arms. Jean Valjean felt himself caught 
in a net which was being slowly hauled in, and looked up to 
heaven in despair. 

In order to understand the following the reader must form 
an exact idea of the Droit-mur lane, and in particular of the 
angle which the visitor left on his left when he turned out of 
the Bue Polonceau into this lane. The lane was almost en- 
tirely bordered on the right by poor-looking houses, on the 
left by single slim-looking edifices, composed of several corps de 
lagis, which gradually rose from one floor to two as they ap- 
proached Little Rue Picpus, so that this mansion, which was 
very lofty on that side, was very low on the side of Rue Polon- 
ceau, where, at the corner to which %e have alluded, it sank so 
low as to be only a wall. This wall did not run parallel with 
the lane, but formed a very deep cant, concealed by its corners 
from any observers in Rue Polonceau and Rue Droit-mur. 
From this cant the wall extended along Rue Polonceau up to 
a house bearing the No. 49, and in Bue Droit-mur, where it 
was much shorter, up to th» frowning building to which we 
have referred, whose gable it intersected, thus forming a new 
re-entering angle in the street. This gable had a gloomy ap- 
pearance, for only one window was visible, or, to speak more 
correctly, two shutters covered with sheet zinc and always 
closed. The description of the locality which we are now giv- 
ing is strictly correct, and will doubtless arouse a very precise 
souvenir in the mind of the old inhabitants of the quarter. 

The cant in the wall was entirely occupied by a thing that 
resembled a colossal and wretched gateway ; it was a vast col- 
lection of perpendicular planks, the top ones wider than those 
below, and fastened together by long strips of iron. By 



LES MISERABLES 


195 


the side of this gate was a porte cochdre of ordinaiy dimensions, 
which had apparently been made in the wall about fifty years 
previously. A linden tree displayed its branches above the 
cant, and the wall was covered with ivy on the side of the Rue 
Polonceau. 

In Jean Valjean’s desperate situation this gloomy building 
had an uninhabited and solitary look about it which tempted 
him. He hurriedly examined it, and said to himself that if he 
could only enter it he might perhaps be saved. • In the centre of 
the frontage of this building, turned to the Rue Droit-mur, 
there was a ramification of old leaden drain-pipes communi- 
cating with all the windows of the diilerent floors. He put 
Cosette down, bidding her be silent, and hurried to the spot 
where the main pipe reached the ground. Perhaps there 
might be a way to scale it and enter the house, but the pipe 
was worn out, and scarce held in its cramps ; besides, all the 
windows of this silent house were defended by thick iron bars, 
even the garrets. And then the moon shone full on this front, 
and the man watching at the end of the street would see Jean 
Valjean climb up ; and then what was he to do with Cosette ? 
how was he to hoist her up a three-storeyed house ? He gave 
up all idea of climbing by the pipe, and crawled along the wall 
to re-enter Rue Polonceau. When he reached the cant where 
he had left Cosette he nofSced that no one could see him there. 
As we stated, he was safe from all eyes, no matter on what 
side ; moreover, he was in the shadow, and then, lastly, there 
were two gates, which might perhaps be forced. The wall 
over which he saw the linden tree and the ivy evidently be- 
longed to a garden in which he could at least conceal himself, 
though there was no foliage onWjhe trees, and pass the rest of 
the night. Time was slipping away, and he must set to work 
at once. He felt the porte coch^re, and at once perceived that 
it was fastened up inside and out ; and then went to the other 
great gate with more hope. It was frightfully decrepit, its 
very size rendered it less solid, the planks were rotten, and the 
iron bands, of which there were only three, were rusty. It 
seemed possible to break through this afiair. On examining 
t^ gate however he saw that it was not a gate ; it had no 
hinges, lock, or partition in the centre ; the iron bands crossed 
it from side to side without any solution of continuity. Through 
the cracks of the planks he caught a glimpse of coarsely- 



196 


LES MISEBABLES 


mortared rag stone, which passers-bj might have seen ten 
years back. He was forced to confess to himself with coiister- 
nation that this fancied gate was simply a make-believe ; it 
was easy to pull down a plank, but he would find himself face 
to face with a wall. 

At this moment a hollow, cadenced sound began to grow 
audible a short distance off, and Jean Valjean ventured to take 
a peep round the corner of the street. Seven or eight soldiers 
were entering the street ; he could see their bayonets gleaming, 
and they were coining toward him. These soldiers, at the head 
of whom he distinguished Javert’s tall form, advanced slowly 
and cautiously, exploring all the corners and all the doors and 
lanes. Judging from the pace at which they marched, and the 
halts they made, they would require about a quarter of an hour 
to reach the spot where Jean Valjean was. 

There was now only one thing possible. Among other re- 
sources, owing to his numerous escapes from the Toulon galleys, 
he had become a perfect master in the incredible art of raising 
himself without ladder, cramping irons, and by his mere muscu- 
lar strength, and holding on by his shoulders and knees, in the 
right angle of a wall, to the sixth floor if necessary. Jean Val- 
jean measured the height of the wall above which he saw the 
linden tree, and found that it was about eighteen feet. The 
lower part of the angle which it mad^ with the gable end of the 
large building was filled up with a triangular mass of masonry, 
very common in Parisian comers. This mass was about five 
feet high, and the space to be cleared from the top of it was not 
more than fourteen * but the difficulty was Cosette, a man re- 
quires his whole strength to carry out such an ascent, and the 
slightest burden would displace his centre of gravity and hurl 
him down. He required a rope, but he had none. Assuredly 
at this moment, if Jean Valjean had possessed a kingdom, he 
would have given it for a rope. Ilia desperate glance fell 
on the lamp-post in the blind alley. In those days lamps 
were lit at regular distances, which were pulled up and down 
by a rope that crossed the street, and fitt^ into a groove in a 
post. The end of the lope was kept in an iron box under the 
lantern, of which the lamp-lighter had the key, and the rope it- 
self was protected by a metal case. Jean Valjean leaped across 
the street, burst the lock of the box with the point of his knife, 
and a moment later was again by Cosette’s side holding a rope. 



LES HISEBABLES 


197 


We have mentioned that the lamps were not lit on this night, 
the one in the blind alley therefore was naturally extinguished; 
and any one might have passed close without noticing that it 
no longer in its place. 

The hour, the place, the darkness, Jean Valjean’s preoccu- 
pation, his singular gestures, his coming and going, were all be- 
ginning to alarm Cosette. The noise of the approaching patrol 
also constantly became more distinct. 

“ Father,” she whispered, “ I am frightened; who is coming ? ” 

“ Silence,” the unhappy man replied, “ it is Madame Th6- 
nardier.” 

The child trembled, and he added, — 

“ Do not say a word, but leave me to act : if you cry out or 
sob, she will catch you and take you back again.” 

Then, without hurry, he undid his cravat, fastened it under 
Cosette’s armpits, fastened the rope to the cravat, took the 
other end in his teeth, took ofi his shoes and stockings, which he 
threw over the wall, and began raising himself in the corner of 
the wall with as much certainty as if he had cramping irons 
under his heels and elbows. Half a minute had not elapsed 
ere he was astride the coping. Cosette looked at him in stupor, 
without saying a word ; for Jean Valjean’s mention of the 
landlady’s name had frozen her. All at once she heard Jean 
Valjean say to her, in a* very low voice, — 

“ Lean against the wall ; you must not say a word, or feel 
frightened.” 

And she felt herself lifted from the ground, but before she 
had time to look round she found herself on the top of the wall. 
Jean Valjean placed her on his back, took her two little hands 
in his left hand, and crawled al^g the wall till he reached the 
cant. As he had suspected, there was a building here, whose 
roof began at the top of the bastard gate and descended in a 
gentle slope nearly to the ground, grazing the linden tree. 
This was a fortunate circumstance, for the wall was much 
higher on this side than on that of the street, and Jean Valjean 
could scarce see the ground, so far was it beneath him. He 
had just reached the sloping roof, and had not yet loosed his 
hold of the coping, when a violent uproar announced the arrival 
of the patrol, and he heard Javert’s thundering voice, — 
Search the blind alley ; all the streets are guarded, and I 
will wager that he is in it.” 



LES MISEBABLES 


198 

The soldiers rushed forward. Jean Valjcan slipped down 
the roof, still supporting Cosette, reached the linden tree^-aiid 
leapt on the ground. Either through terror or courage the 
child had not said a word ; her hands were only slightly grazed. 

Jean Valjean found himself in a large garden of an oblong 
shape, with a walk of tall poplars at the end, tall shrubs in the 
comer, and an unshadowed space, in the centre of which an 
isolated tree could be distinguished. 

Jean Valjean had by his side the building, by help of whose 
roof he had descended, a pile of faggots, and behind the latter, 
close to the wall, a stone statue, whose mutilated face was 
merely a shapeless mask, appearing indistinctly in the darkness. 
The building was a species of ruin, containing several dis- 
mantled rooms, of which one was apparently employed as a 
shed. The large edifice of the Rue Droit-mur had two facades 
looking into this garden at right angles, and these fa9ades were 
even more melancholy than those outside. All the windows 
were barred, and not a single light could bo seen, while at the 
upper window there were scuttles as in prisons. One of these 
frontages threw its shadow upon the other, which fell back on 
the garden like an immense black cloth. No other house could 
be noticed, and the end of the garden was lost in mist and night. 
Still, walls could be indistinctly noticed intersecting each 
other, as if there were other gardeiiS beyond, and the low 
roofs in the Rue Polonceau. 

Jean Valj can’s first care was to put on his shoes and stock* 
ings again, and then enter the shed with Cosette. Cosette 
trembled and climg close to him : for she could hear the tumultu- 
ous noise of the patrol searching the street and lane, the blows 
of musket-butts against the ctones, Javert’s appeals to the 
men whom he had posted, and his oaths, mingl^ with words 
which could not be distinguished. At the expiration of 
a quarter of an hour this species of stormy grumbling appeared 
to be retiring, and Jean Valjean could scarce breathe. All at 
once, in the midst of the calm that followed, a new sound burst 
forth ; a heavenly, ineffable sound, as ravishing as the other 
had been horrible It was a hymn, that issued from the dark- 
ness, a dazzling blending of prayer and harmony in the dark and 
fearful silence of the night ; female voices, but composed at 
once of the pure accent of virgins and the simple voices of chil- 
dren, such voices as do not belong to earth, and resemble those 



LES MISERABLES 


199 


which the new-bom still hear, and the dying begin to hear. 
This chant came from the gloomy building that commanded the 
garden, and at the moment when the noise of the demons was 
retiring it seemed like a choir of angels approaching in the dark. 
Cosette and Jean Valjean fell on their knees ; they knew not 
what it was, they knew not where they were, but both man 
and child*, the penitent and the innocent, felt that they must 
fall on their knees. While the voices sang, Jean Valjean 
thought of nothing else. The singing ceased ; .it had probably 
lasted some time, but Jean Valjean could not have said how 
long, for hours of ecstasy never* occupy more than a minute. 
All had become silent again : there was no sound in the garden, 
no soimd in the street ; all that that threatened, all that that 
reassured, had faded away. 

As the ground was damp, the shed open on all sides, and 
the wind grew more cutting every moment, Jean Valjean took 
off his coat and wrapped Cosette up in it. 

“ Wait for me a minute,” he said. 

He left the ruin, and began walking along the large build- 
ing in search of some better shelter. After passing the inner 
angle of the edifice he noticed that he had come to some 
arched windows, and perceived a faint light. He raised him- 
self on tip-toe and looked through one of the windows ; they 
all belonged to a large laill, paved with stones, in which no- 
thing could be distinguished but a little light and great shadows. 
The light came from a night-lamp burning in the comer. This 
hall was deserted, and nothing was stirring in it, and yet, after 
a long look, he fancied that he could see, pn the ground, some- 
thing that seemed to be covered with a pall and resembled a 
human form. It was stretched out flat, with its face against 
the stones, its arms forming a cross, and motionless as death. 
From a species of snake which dragged along the pavement, it 
looked as if this sinister form had a rope round its neck. The 
whole hall was bathed in that mist of badly-lighted places, 
which intensifies the horror. 

Though he remained gazing for a time which appeared to 
him very long, the outstretched form made no movement. All 
at once he felt himself assailed by an indescribable horror, 
and he ran off toward the shed without daring to look back. 
When he reached the ruin he was panting, his Imees gave way, 
and the perspiration was running down his back. Where 



200 


LES MISERABLES 


was he T What was this strange house 7 An edifice full of 
nocturnal mystery, calling souls in the darkness, the voice of 
angels, and when they arrive, suddenly offering them this 
frightful vision. It was not a dream ; but he was obhgcd to 
touch the stones in order to believe it. Cold, anxiety, ap- 
prehension, and the emotion of the night, brought on him a 
real fever, and all his ideas were confused in his brain. He 
went up to Cosette; she was asleep with her head upon a 
stone. He sat down by her side, and began gazing at her. 

Through the reverie into which he had fallen, he had heard 
for some time past a singular noise, like a bell being rung, 
and it was in the garden. This noise made Jean Yaljean turn, 
and he saw that there was some one in the garden. A being 
looking like a man was walking among the melon frames, 
rising, stooping, and stopping vrith regular movements, as if 
he was dragging or stretching out something on the ground. 
This man was apparently lame. Jean Valjean gave the con- 
tinual, trembling start of the unhappy. Just now he shud- 
dered because the garden was deserted, and now he shuddered 
because there was some one in it. He said to himself that 
Javert and the police had probably not gone away, that they 
had, in any case, left watchmen in the street ; and that if this 
man discovered ^m he would give an alarm and hand him over 
to the police. He gently raised thb still sleeping Cosette in 
his arms, and carried her behind a mass of old furniture in the 
most remote part of the shed ; Cosette did not stir. From 
this spot he observed the movements of the being in the melon 
ground ; the strange thing was that the noise of the bell 
followed this man’s every movement. It appeared evident 
that the bell was fastened to hkn ; but in that case what could 
be the meaning of it ? While asking himself this question ha 
touched Cosette’s hands; they were chilled. 

“ Cosette ! ” he said in a whisper. 

She did not open her eyes. He shook her sharply, but she 
did not awake. 

** Can she be dead ? ” he said to himself, and he rose, shiver- 
ing from head to foot. 

The most frightful thoughts crossed his mind. He remem- 
ber^ that sleep in the open air in a cold night might be mortal. 
Cosette was lying stretched out motionless at his feet. She 
was breathing, but so faintly that it seemed as if the respira- 



LES MISERABLES 


201 


tion would cease at any moment. How was lie to warm her ? 
how Was he to wake her 7 All that did not refer to this slipped 
fipm his mind, and he rushed wildly from the shed. It was 
absolutely necessary that Cosette should be in bed before a 
fire within a quarter of an hour. 

Jean Valjean walked straight up to the man whom he saw 
in the garllen, and while doing so took from his pocket a rouleau 
of silver. This man was looking down, and did not see him 
coming, and in a few strides Jean Valjean warfby his side, and 
addressed him with the cry, “One hundred francs.” 

The man started and raised his eyes. 

“ One hundred francs to be gained,” Jean Valjean continued, 
•• if you will find me a shelter for this night.” 

The moon fully lit up Jean Valj can’s alarmed face. 

“ Why, it is you. Father Madeleine ! ” the man said. 

The name uttered thus in the darkness at this strange spot, 
by this strange man, made Jean Valjean recoil, for he ex- 
pected everything save that. The man who addressed him 
was a stooping, lame old man, dressed nearly like a peasant, 
and wearing on his left leg a leather knee-cap, from which hung 
a rather large bell. 

“ Who are you ? and what is this house ? ” Jean Valjean 
asked. , 

“ Oh, Lord, that is too strong,” the old man exclaimed ; 
“ why, did you not get me the situation ? What, don’t you 
recognize me ? You saved my life.” 

He turned, a moonbeam played on his face, and Jean Valjean 
recognized old Fauchelevent. 

“ Ah I ” he said, “ it is you 7 oh, now I recognize you. And 
what are you doing here ? ” ^ 

“ Why ! I am covering my melons. But how have you got 
here 7 ” 

Jean Valjean, feeling himself known by this man, at least 
under the name of Madeleine, only advanced cautiously. He 
multiplied his questions, and curiously enough they changed 
parts, — ^he, the intruder, became the questioner. 

“ And what is that bell you have on your knee 7 ” 

“ That 7 ” Fauchelevent said ; “ it is that they may avoid me.” 

What on earth do you mean 7 ” 

Old Fauchelevent gave an inimitable wink. 

“ Oh, Lord, they are only women in this house, and lots of 



202 


LES MISERABLES 


girls. It seems that I should be dangerous to meeti and so 
the bell warns them ; when I come, they go.’* 

“ What is this house ? ” 

“ Oh, nonsense, you know.” 

“Indeed I do not.” 

“ Why, you got me the gardener’s place here.” 

“ Answer me as if I knew nothing.” 

“ Well, it is the convent of the Little Picpus, then.*' 

Jean Valjearfs recollections returned to him. Chance, 
that is to say. Providence, hrd brought him to the very con- 
vent in the Quartier St. Antoine, where Fauchelevent, after his 
accident, had been engaged on his recommendation two years 
back. 

“ But come, tell me,” Fauchelevent continued, “ how the 
deuce did you get in here, Father Madeleine ? for though you 
are a saint, you are a man, and no men are admitted here.” 

“ Why, you are.” 

“ Well, only I.” 

“ And yet,” Jean Valjean continued, “ I must remain.” 

Jean Valjean then walked up to the gardener, and said in a 
grave voice, — 

“ Fauchelevent, I saved your life. Well, you can do for 
me to-day what I did for you fonperly.” 

“ Oh ! it would be a blessing from heaven, if I could re- 
pay you a slight portion ! Save your life ! M. Madeleine, 
you can dispose of an old man as you please. What do you 
wish me to do ? ” 

“ I will explain : have you a room ? ” 

“ I have a cottage behind the ruins of the old convent, in a 
comer which no one visits, ^ith three rooms.” 

“Good,” said Jean Valjean; “now I will ask two things 
of you. First, that you will tell nobody what you know about 
me ; and, secondly, that you will not try to learn anything 
further.” 

“As you please. I know that you can do nothing but 
what is honest, and that you have ever been a man after God’s 
heart. And then, again, it was you who got me this situation, 
and I am at your service.” 

“ Enough ; now come with me, and we will go and fetch 
the child.” 

“ Ah,” said Fauchelevent, “ there is a child.” 



LES MISERABLES 


203 


He did not add a word, but followed Jean Valjean as a 
dog *1 olio ws its master. In less than half an hour, Cosette, 
who had become rosy again by the heat of a good fire, was asleep 
in the old gardener’s bed. The two men were seated near the 
lire at a table on which Faiichelevent had placed a lump of 
cheese, Ijiscuits, a bottle of wine and two glasses, and the old 
man said to Jean Valjean as he laid his hand on his knee, — 

“ Ah, Father Madeleine I you did not recognize me at once ; 
you save people’s lives and forget them afterwards ! Oh, that 
is wrong, for they remember yoif ; you are an ungrateful man.” 

The events of which we have just seen the back, so to speak, 
had occurred under the simplest conditions. When Jean 
Valjean, on the night of the day on which Javert arrested 

him bvFantine’s death-bed, broke out ofM jail, the police 

supposed that the escaped convict would proceed to Paris. 

They sought there the ex-mayor of M , a)id Javert was 

summoned to assist in the search, and in truth powcrfuUy 
assisted in recapturing Jean Valjean. The zeal and intelli- 
gence he displayed in this office were noticed by M. Chabouillet, 
Secretary to the Prefecture under Count Angles, and this 
gentleman, who had before been a friend to Javert, had the 
police-inspector of M appointed to the Paris district. 

Ho thought no more rf)f Jean Valjean until in December, 
1823. Javert, who was a legitimist, had taken up a newspaper 
to learn the details of the triumphal entry of the “ Prince Ge- 
neralissimo” into Bayonne. When he had finished the article, 
the name of Jean Valjean at the foot of a column, attracted 
him. The newspaper announced that the convict Jean Val- 
jean was dead, and publishec^the fact in such formal terms 
that Javert did not doubt it. He musing said, “ That is the 
best bolt,” then threw away the paper, and thought no more 
of the subject. Some time after, it happened that a report 
was sent by the Prefecture of the Seine etOise to that of Paris 
about the abduction of a child, under peculiar circumstances, 
in the parish of Montfermeil. The child who had been entrusted 
by her mother to a publican answered to the name of Cosette, 
and her mother was a certain Fantine, who had died in a 
hospital, it was not known when or where. This report passed 
under Javert’s eyes, and rendered him thoughtful. The name 
of Fantine was familiar to him ; he remembered that Jean 
Valjean had made him laugh by asking him for a respite of 



204 


LES MISEBABLES 


three days to go and fetch this creature’s child. He remem- 
bered that Jean Valjean was arrested at Paris at the ^ery 
moment when he was getting into the Montfermeil coach, 
and some facts had led to the supposition at the time that he 
had taken a trip to the vicinity of the village on the previous 
day, for he had not been seen in the village itself. "V^at was 
his business at Montfermeil ? Javert now understood it — 
Fantine’s daughter was there, and Jean Valjean had gone to 
fetch her. Now this child had just been stolen by a stranger ; 
could it be Jean Valjean ? — but he was dead. Javert, with- 
out saying a word to anybody, took the coach at the Pewter 
Platter, and went oS to Montfermeil. 

He expected to find here a great clearing up, but only found 
a great obscurity. Thenardier, wdth his admirable instinct, 
very speedily comprehended that it is never useful to set the 
authorities at work, and that his complaint about the abduction 
of Cosette would have the primary result of fixing the flashing 
gaze of justice upon himself. He affected amazement when 
people spoke about “ the stolen child.” He did not at all 
understand ; he had certainly complained at the first moment 
about his little darling being taken from him so suddenly ; 
but it was her grandfather who had come to fetch her in the 
most natural way in the world. Ja\ert, however, drove a few 
questions like probes into Thenardier’s story : “ Who was 
this grandfather, and what was his name ? ” Thenardier 
answered simply “ He is a rich farmer ; I saw his passport, 
and I fancy his name was M. Guillaume Lambert.” Lambert 
is a respectable and most reassuring name, and so Javert 
returned to Paris. “ Jean Valjean is really dead,” he said 
to himself, “and I am an as^* 

He was beginning to forget the whole affair again, when 
in the course of March, 1824, he heard talk of a peculiar 
character who lived in the parish of St. Medard, and was sur- 
named the “ beggar who gives alms.” This man was said to be 
an annuitant, who lived alone with a little girl of eight years 
of age, who Imew nothing about herself, except that she came 
from Montfermeil. He wore a horrible old yellow coat, which 
was said to be worth several millions, as it was lined all through 
with bank-notes. This decidedly piqued Javert’s curiosity. 
In order to see this annuitant closer, he one day borrowed the 
beggar’s rags and the place wh^e the old spy crouched every 



LES MISEBABLES 


205 


evening, snuffling his orisons through his nose, and spying 
betvV'een his prayers. “The suspicious individual” really 
Qame up to Javert thus travestied, and gave him alms. At 
this moment Javert raised his head, and the shock which 
Jean Valjean received on fancying that he recognized Javert, 
Javert received on fancying that he recognized Jean Valjean. 
Still, Javert felt serious doubts, and when in doubt, Javert, a 
scrupulous man, never collared anybody. He followed his 
man to No. 60-52, and made the old womarf talk, which was 
no difficult task. She confirmed the fact of the great-coat 
lined with millions, and told the story about the thousand- 
franc note. J avert hired a room, and took possession of it that 
same night. He listened at the door of the mysterious lodger, 
in the hope of hearing his voice, but Jean Valjean saw his 
candle through the key-hole, and foiled the spy by holding his 
toner lie. 

When Jean Valjean left the house at night, Javert was 
waiting for him behind the trees with two men. Javert fol- 
lowed Jean Valjean from tree to tree, and then from street 
comer to street corner, and had not once taken his eye off 
him. Why did Javert not arrest him, though ? Because he 
was still in doubt. A few arbitrary arrests, denounced by 
the newspapers, had fou^d an echo in the Chambers, and ten- 
dered the Prefecture timid. He walked along, therefore, in 
great perplexity, asking himself a hundred questions about 
this enigmatical personage. It was not till some time after 
that he decidedly recognized Jean Valjean in the Rue Pon- 
toise, by the brilliant light that poured from a wine shop ; but, 
instead of arresting him at once, as he might have done, he 
delayed, that he might ask fot further support at the police- 
office in the same street. 

Javert certainly committed errors in his campaign against 
Jean Valjean. He was probably wrong in hesitating to recog- 
nize the ex-galley slave, for a glance ought to have been 
sufficient for him. Ho was wrong in not apprehending him 
purely and simply at No. 60-62. He was wrong in not arrest- 
ing him, upon recognition, in the Rue Pontoise. He was 
wrong to arrange with his colleagues in the bright moonlight, 
although certainly advice is useful, and it is as well to interro- 
gate those dogs which deserve credence. Above all, he 
was wrong, on nncling the trail again at the Austerlitz Bridge, 



206 


LES MISERABLES 


in playing the daDgerous and foolish trick of holding such a 
man by a string. He fancied himself stronger than he rfeally 
was, and that he could play with the lion as if it were a mous^. 
At the same time he imagined himself too weak when he fan- 
cied that he must procure help; it was a fatal precaution, 
and the loss of precious time. 

However this may be, even at the moment when Javert 
perceived that Jean Valjean had slipped from his clutches 
he did not lose his head. Certain that the convict could not 
be very far off, he establishednwatches, and beat up the quarter 
the whole night through. The first thing he saw was the cut 
cord of the lantern. This was a valuable sign, which, how- 
ever, led him astray so far that it made him turn all his atten- 
tion to the Oenrot blind alley. There are in this alley low 
walls, surrounding gardens which -skirt open fields, and 
Jean Valjean had evidently fled in that direction. Javert 
explored the gardens and fields as if looking for a needle, and 
at daybreak he left two intelligent men on duty, and returned 
to the Prefecture of Police, looking as hang-dog as a spy cap- 
tured by a robber. 


CHAPTER X 

r 

Half b century ago nothing more resembled any ordinary 
porte cochere than that of No. 62, Petite Rue Piepus. This 
door, generally half-open in the most inviting manner, allowed 
you to see a court-yard with walls covered with vines, and the 
face of a lounging pOrter. If you succeeded, which was not 
easy, in passing the porter, you entered on the right a small 
hall from which ran a staircaie enclosed between two walls, 
and so narrow that only one person could go up at a time. 
If you were not frightened by the canary-coloured plas- 
ter and chocolate wainscot of this staircase, and still boldly 
ascended, you crossed two landings and found yourself in 
a passage on the first-floor, where the yellow distemper 
and chocolate skirting board followed you with a quiet per- 
tinacity. The staircase and passage were lighted by two fine 
windows, but the latter soon made a bend and became dark. 
When you had doubled this cape, you found yourself before 
4 door, which was the more mysterious because it was not 
closed. You pushed it open, and found yourself in a small 



LES MISBRABLES 


207 


room about six feet square, well scrubbed, clean, and frigid, 
and 'hung with a yellow-green sprigged paper, at fifteen sous 
the piece. The walls were bare, and the room unfurnished — 
there was not even a chair. 

You looked again, and saw in the wall facing the door a 
square hole, covered with a black knotty substantial cross- 
barred grating, wliich formed diamonds — at least an inch and 
a half across. The little green sprigs on the yellow paper 
came right up to these bars, and the funereal contact did not 
make them start or wither. Eyen supposing that any human 
being had been so wondrously thin as to attempt to go in or 
out by the square hole, the bars would have prevented him : 
but, though they did not let the body pass, the eyes, that is 
to say, the mind, could. It seemed as if this had been thought 
of, for it had been lined with a tin plate, in w^hich were bored 
thousands of holes more microscopic than those of a strainer. 
Beneath this plate was an opening exactly like the mouth 
of a letter-box, and a bell-wire hung by the side of this hole. 
If you pulled this wire, a bell tinkled, and you heard a voice 
close to you wliich made you start. 

“ Who is there ? ” the voice asked. 

It was a female voice, a gentle voice, so gentle that it was 
melancholy. Here, again, there was a magic word which it 
was necessary to know; if you did not know it, the voice 
ceased, and the wall became silent again, as if the terrifying 
darkness of the tomb w'ere on the other side. If you knew the 
word, the voice continued, — “ Turn to the right.” You 
then noticed, facing the window, a door, the upper part of 
which was of grey painted glass. You raised the latch, walked 
in, and experienced precisely^the same expression as when 
you enter a box at the theatre, before the gilt grating has 
been lowered and the chandelier lighted. You were in fact in 
a species of box, scarce lighted by the faint light that came 
through the gloss door, narrow, furnished with two old chairs 
and a ragged sofa — a real box with a black entablature to 
represent the front. This box had a grating, but it was not 
made of gilt wood as at the opera, but was a monstrous trellis- 
work of frightfully interlaced iron bars. When your eye 
began to grow accustomed to this cellar-like gloom, you tried 
to look through the grating, but could not see more than 
six inches beyond it ; there it met a barrier of black shutters. 



208 


LES MISEBA6LES 


connected and strengthened bj cross-beams, and painted 
of a ginger-bread yellow. These shutters were jointedr di- 
vided into long thin planks, and covered the whole width of 
the grating; they were always closed. At the expiration 
of a few minutes, you heard a voice calling to you from behind 
the shutters, and saying to you, 

“ I am here, what do you want with me ? ” 

It was a loved voice, sometimes an adored voice, but you 
saw nobody, and could scarce hear the sound of breathing. 
If you fulfilled certain required and very rare conditions, the 
narrow plank of one of the shutters opened opposite to you, 
and behind the shutter you perceived, as far as the grating 
would allow, a head, of which you only saw the mouth and 
chin, for the rest was covered by a black veil. You caught a 
glimpse of a black wimple and of a scarce distinct form, covered 
by a black pall. This head spoke to you, but did not look 
at you, and never smiled. The light that came from behind 
you was so arranged that you saw her in brightness, and 
she saw you in darkness; this light was a symbol. Still 
your eyes plunged eagerly through the opening into this 
place, closed against all looks, — a profound vacuum sur- 
rounded this form clothed in mourning. What you saw was 
the interior of a nunnery, which was called the Convent of the 
Perpetual Adoration. The box in which you found your- 
self was the parlour, and the first voice that addressed you 
was that of a lay sister, who always sat, silent and motionless, 
on the other side of the wall, near the square opening which 
was defended by the iron grating and the tin plate with the 
thousand holes like a double visor. 

This convent was a community of Bemardines belonging to 
the obedience of Martin Verga, and the subjects of St. Bene- 
dict. Next to the rule of the Carmelites, who walk barefoot, 
wear a piece of wicker-work on their throat, and never sit 
down, the hardest rule is that of the Bernardo-Benedictines 
of Martin Verga. They are dressed in black with a wdmple, 
which, by the ex]:)ress order of St. Benedict, comes up to the 
chin ; a serge gown with wide sleeves, a large woollen veil, the 
wimple cut square on the chest, and the coif, which comes down 
to their eyes,— such is their dress. All is black, excepting the 
coif, which is white. Novices wear the same garb, but all 
white, while the professed nuns also wear a rosary by their side. 



LES MISERABLES 


209 


At the period when this story is laid, there was a boarding 
school attached to the convent, the pupils being young ladies 
of noble birth and generally rich. These young ladies, edu- 
cated by the nuns between four walls, grew up with a horror 
of the world and of the century. One of them said to us one day, 
‘‘Seeing the street pavement made me shudder from head 
to foot.”* They were dressed in blue with a white cap and 
a plated or gilt Holy Ghost on the chest. On certain high 
festivals, especially Saint Martha, they werfi allowed, as a 
high favour and supreme happiness, to dress themselves 
like nuns, and perform the offices and practices of St. Bene- 
dict for the whole day. At first the nuns lent them their black 
robes, but this was deemed a profanity, and the prioress forbade 
it, so the novices alone were permitted to make such loans. 

The young ladies filled this grave house with delightful 
reminiscences. At certain hours childhood sparkled in this 
cloister. The bell for recreation was rung, the gate creaked 
on its hinges, and the birds whispered to each other, “ Here 
arc the children.” The girls sported beneath the eye of the 
nuns, for the glance of impeccability does not disturb inno- 
cence; and, thanks to these children, there was a simple 
hour among so many austere hours. The little girls jumped 
about, and the elder daiujpd, and nothing could be so ravishing 
and august as all the fresh, innocent expansion of these child- 
ish souls. In this house, more perhaps than elsewhere, those 
childish remarks were made which possess so much grace, and 
which make the hearer laugh thoughtfully. 

In one of the cloisters, too, was picked up the following 
confession, written beforehand, so as not to forget it, by a 
little sinner of seven years of ^ge : — 

“ My father, I accuse myself of having been avaricious. 

“ My father, I accuse myself of having committed adultery. 
“ My father, I accuse myself of having raised my eyes to 
gentlemen.” 

Each house of this nature has its peculiarities. At the 
beginning of this century, Ecouen was one of those places in 
which the childhood of children]is passed in an almost august 
gloom. At Ecouen a distinction was made between the vir- 
gins and flower-girls, in taking rank in the procession of the 
Holy Sacrament. There were also the “canopies,” and the 
censers,” the former holding the cords of the canopy, the 



210 


LES MISERABLES 


latter swinging the censers in front of the Holy Sacrament, 
while four virgins walked in front. On the morning of ' Che 
great day, it was not rare to hear people say in the dormitory,— 
“ Who is a virgin ? *’ Madame Campan mentions a remark 
made by a little girl of seven to a grown-up girl of sixteen, who 
walked at the head of the procession, while she, the little one, 
remained behind : “ You are a virgin, you, but I am not one.” 

All the nuns were kind to the children, and only stem to 
themselves ; there were no fires lit except in the school-house, 
and the food there was luxurious when compared with that 
of the convent. The only thing was that when a child passed 
a nun and spoke to her, the latter did not answer. This rule 
of silence produced the result, that in the vrhole convent lan- 
guage was withdrawn from human creatures and given to in- 
animate objects. At one moment itwas the church bell that 
spoke, at another the gardener’s ; and a very sonorous gong, 
placed by the side of the sister porter, and which oould be 
heard all through the house, indicated by various raps, which 
were a sort of acoustic telegraphy, all the actions of natural 
life which had to be accomplished, and summoned a nun, if 
required, to the parlour. Each person and each thing had 
its raps : the prioress had one and one ; the sub-prioress one 
and two ; six-five announced the |ichool hour, so that the 
pupils talked of going to six-five ; four-four was Madame 
Genlis’ signal when she boarded in the convent, and as it was 
heard very often, uncharitable persons said she was the ** (lia- 
ble k quatre.” Nineteen strokes announced a great event, — 
it was the opening of the cloister door, a terrible iron plate 
all bristling with bolts, which only turned on its hinges be- 
fore the Archbishop. With the exception of that dignitary 
and the gardener, no other man entered the convent, but the 
boarders saw two others, — one was the chaplain, Abb6 Bante, 
an old ugly man, whom they were allowed to contemplate 
through a grating; while the other was M. Ansiaux, the 
drawing-master, who, in a letter written by an ex-boarder, is 
described as an odious old hunchback. So we see that all 
the men were picked. 

The convent of the Little Piepus occupied a large trapeze, 
formed by the four streets to which we have so frequently 
idluded, and which surrounded it like a moat. The convent 
was composed of several buildings and a garden. The main 



LES MISEBABLES 


211 


building, regarded in its entirety, was a juxtaposition of 
hyLi.id constructions, which, looked at from a balloon, would’ 
very exactly form a gallows laid on the ground. The long 
arm of the gallows occupied the whole of the Rue Droit-mur, 
comprised between the Little Rue Picpus and the Rue Polon- 
ceau, while the shorter arm was a tall, grey, stern, grated 
fa 9 ade, looking on the Little Rue Picpus, of which the porte 
cochere, No, 62, was the extremity. Towards the centre of 
this fa 9 ade dust and ashes whitened an old, low-arched gate, 
where the spiders made their we^s, and which was only opened 
for an hour or two on Simdays, and on the rare occasions when 
the coffin of a nun left the convent ; this was the public entrance 
to the church. The elbow of the gallows was a square room, 
used as an office, and which the nuns called the “ buttery.’* 
In the long arm were the cells of the mothers, sisters, and 
novices ; in the short one the kitchens, the refectory, along 
which a cloister ran, and the church. Between No. 62 and 
the comer of Aumaraia Lane was the school, which could 
not be seen from the exterior. The rest of the trapeze formed 
the garden, which was much lower than the level of the 
Rue Polonceau, and this caused the walls to be much loftier 
inside than out. The garden, which was slightly arched, had 
at its centre and on the top of a mound a hne-pointed and 
conical fir-tree, from which ran, as from the boss of shield, 
four large walks, with eight smaller ones arranged two and 
two, BO that, had the enclosure been circular, the geometrical 
plan of the walks would have resembled a cross laid upon a 
wheel. .The walks, which all ran to the extremely irregular 
walls of the garden, were of unequal length, and were bordered 
by gooseberry bushes. At the* end a poplar walk ran from 
the ruins of the old convent, which was at the angle of the Rue 
Droit-mur, to the little convent, which was at the corner of 
Aumarais Lane. In front of the little convent was what was 
called the small garden. If we add to this ememble a court- 
yard, all sorts of varying angles formed by the inside buildings, 
prison walls, and the long black line of roofs that ran along 
the other side of the Rue Polonceau, as the sole prospect, we 
can form an exact idea of what the house of the Bernardines 
of Little Picpus was five-and-forty years ago, This sacred 
house was built on the site of a famous racket court in the 
16th century, which was called the “ Tripot des onze mille 



212 


LES MISERABLES 


diables.” All these streets, indeed, were the oldest in Paris j 
the names Droit-mur and Aumarais are very old, but-^the 
streets that bear them are far older. Aumarais Lane was 
before called Maugout Lane ; the Rue Droit-mur was called the 
Rue des Eglantines, for God opened the flowers before man cut 
building-stones. 

It was into this house that Jean Valjean had fallen from 
heaven, as Faucheleveiit said. He had climbed the garden- 
wall which formed the angle of the Rue Poloncean ; the h3rmn 
of angels which he heard in the middle of the night was the 
nuns chanting matins ; the hall which he had caught a glimpse 
of in the darkness, was the chapel ; the phantom he had seen 
stretched out on the ground was the phantom making repara- 
tion ; and the bell which had so strangely surprised him was 
the gardener’s bell fastened to Faucholevent’s knee. So soon 
as Cosette was in bed Jean Valjean and Fauchelevent supped 
on a glass of wine and a lump of cheese before a good blazing 
log ; then, as the only bed in the cottage was occupied by Cos- 
ette, each threw himself on a truss of straw. Before closing his 
eyes Jean Valjean said, — “ I must stop here henceforth,” and 
this remark trotted about Fauchelevent’s head all night. For a 
wTetch in Valj can’s position, this convent was the safest place, — 
because if he succeeded in remaining in it who would come to 
seek him there ? Inhabiting an impossible spot was salvation. 

On his side, Fauchelevent racked his brains. How was M. 
Madeleine, in spite of all the surrounding walls, here ? — ^How 
was he here with a child ? People do not scale a perpendicular 
wall with a child in their arms. Who was this child ? . Where 
did they both come from ? Since Fauchelevent had been in 

the convent he had received n« news from M , and did not 

know what had occurred there. The gardener was stumbling 
among conjectures and saw nothing clear but this, — “ M. Made- 
leine saved my life.” This sole certainty was sufficient, and 
decided him ; he said to himself, “ It is my turn now.” 

Fauchelevent was an old man, who had been during 
life selfish, and who, at the end of his days, limping, infirm, 
and taking no interest in the world, found it pleasant to bo 
grateful, and seeing a virtuous action to be done, he flung him- 
self upon it like a man who, on the point of death, lays his hand 
on a glass of good wine which he had never tasted, and eagerly 
drinks it ofi. We may add, that the air which he had been 



LES MISEBABLES 


213 


bypathing for some years in this convent, had destroyed his. 
personality, and had eventually rendered some good deed a 
necessity for him. He, therefore, formed the resolution of 
devoting himself for M. Madeleine. At day-break, after 
thinking enormously, Father Fauchelevent opened his eyes 
and saw M. Madeleine sitting on his truss of straw, and looking 
at the sleeping Cosette ; Fauchelevent sat up too, and said, — 

“ Now that you are here, how will you manage to get on ? ” 
This remark summed up the situation, and aroused Jean 
Valjean from his reverie. The two men held counsel. 

“ In the first place,” said Fauchelevent, “ you must begin 
by not setting foot outside this cottage, neither you nor the 
little one. One step in the garden, and we are done.” 

“ That is true.” 

“ Monsieur Madeleine,” Fauchelevent continued, “ you 
have arrived at a very lucky moment, I ought to say, a very 
unhappy one, for one of our ladies is dangerously ill. In conse- 
quence of this, folk will not look much this way. It seems that 
she is dying, and the forty hours’ prayers are being said. 
The whole community is aroused, and that occupies them. 
The person who is on the point of going off is a saint. There 
will be a service for the dying, and then the service for the 
dead. For to-day we shall be all quiet here ; but I do not 
answer for to-morrow.” 

“ Still,” Jean Valjean observed, “this cottage is retired, it 
is hidden by a sort of ruin, there are trees, and it camiot be 
seen from the convent.” 

“ There are the little ones.” 

“ What little ones ? ” Jean Valjean asked. 

As Fauchelevent opened his mouth to answer, a stroke rang 
out from a bell. 

“ The nun is dead,” he said, “ that is the knell.” 

And he made Jean Valjean a sign to listen. A second stroke 
rang out. 

“ It is the passing bell. Monsieur Madeleine. The bell will 
go on so minute after minute for twenty-four hours, till the 
body leaves the church. You see they play about ; at recrea- 
tions they need only lose a baU, and, in spite of the prohibition, 
they win come and look for it here and ransack everything. 
Those cherubs are little devils. I can teU you that you would 
soon be discovered. They would cry out, ‘ Why, it’s a man ! * 



214 


LES MISERABLES 


.But there is no danger to-day, for there will be no recreation 
The day will be spent in prayer. You hear the bell, as I told 
you, one stroke a minute, — ^it is the knell.” 

“ I understand. Father Faucbelevent, they are boarders.” 

And Jean Valjean thought to himself ; 

“ It is a chance for educating Cosette.” 

Fauchelevent exclaimed, — 

“By Job, I should think they are boarders! they would 
snifi round you, and then run away. To be a man here is to 
have the plague, as you can ste ; a bell is fastened to my paw 
as if I were a wild beast.” 

Jean Valjean reflected more and more deeply. “ This 
convent woiilcl save us,” ho muttered, and then added aloud, — 

“ Yes, the difficulty is to remain.” 

“ No,” said Fauchelevent, “ it is to go out. In order to 
come in, you must go out. The nuns require that people 
should come in by the front door. Can’t you go out by the 
way that you came in ? Come, I don’t want to ask you a 
question, — but where did you come in ? ” 

Jean Valjean turned pale ; the mere idea of going back to 
that formidable street made him tremble. He figured to 
himself the police still searching in the quarter, the agents 
watching, and Javert perhaps in a cerner lurking for his iirey. 

“ Impossible I ” he said. “ Suppose, Father Fauchelevent, 
that I really fell from above.” 

“ Why, I believe so,” Fauchelevent continued, “ you need 
not toll me so. Your little girl is still asleep ; what is her name ? ” 

“ Cosette.” 

“ Is she your daughter ? I mean are you her grandfather ? ” 

“ Yes.” 

“ To get her out will be easy. I can put my dorser on my 
back, with the little girl in it, and go out. You will tell her 
to be very quiet, and she will be under the hood. I will leave 
her for the necessary time with an old friend of mine, a fruiter- 
ess in the Rue du Chemiii Vert, who is deaf, and where there 
is a little bed. I will shout in her ear that it is my Tiiece, and 
bid her keep her for me till to-morrow ; then the little one 
will come in with you, for I mean to bring you in again. But 
how win you manage to get out ? ” 

Jean Valjean shook his head. 

Fauchelevent scratched the tip of his ear with the middle 



LES MISERABLES 


216 


fiager of his left hand, which was a sign of serious embarrass^ 
nl&amp;it. A peal caused a diversion. 

“ That is the doctor going away/' said Fauchelevent. 
When the doctor has countersigned the passport for Paradise, 
the undertakers send a coffin, and I nail up. That is part of 
my gardening, for a gardener is a bit of a grave-digger. The 
coffin is* placed in the vestry room which communicates 
with the street, and which no man is allowed to enter but 
the doctor, for I don't count the undertakers and myself 
as men. It is in this room that I nail up the coffin. A box 
is brought, in which there is nothing, and it is carried off 
with something in it ; and that’s what a burial is. De Profun- 
dis. The grave is dug in the Vaugirard cemetery. I have a 
friend there, Father Mestienne, the grave-digger. The nuns 
of this house possess the privilege of being carried to that 
cemetery at nightfall. But what events since yesterday ! 
Mother Crucifixion is dead, and Father Madeleine — ” 

** Is buried," Jean Valjean said, with a sad smile. 

Fauchelevent marked the word. 

“ Well, if you were here altogether, it would be a real burial." 

Another peal rang out. Fauchelevent quickly took down 
his knee-cap and put it on. 

" This time it is for cje. The Mother Prioress wants me. 
M. Madeleine, don’t stir, but wait for me. There is something 
up ; if you are hungry, there is bread, wine, and cheese." 

Jean Valjean watched him hurrying across the garden as 
rapidly as his leg would allow. Less than ten minutes after, 
Father JB'auohelevent, whose bell routed all the nuns as he 
passed, tapped gently at a door, and a soft voice answered. 

For ever, for ever/’ that is td say, “ Come in." It was the 
door of the parlour reserved expressly for the gardener, and 
adjoining the chapter-room. The prioress, seated on the only 
chair in the room, was waiting for Fauchelevent. 

The gardener gave a timid bow, and remained in the door- 
way of the cell ; the prioress, who was telling her beads, raised 
her eyes, and said, — 

** Father Fauvent, I summoned you. I wish to speak with 
you." 

“ And I," said Fauchelevent, with a boldness which made 
him tremble inwards, have something to say to the most 
Reverend Mother." 



216 


LES MISEBABLES 


The prioress looked at him. 

Ah ! you have a communication to make to me 1 

“ A request.” 

‘‘ Well, speak.” 

The good man, with the assurance of a servant who knows 
his value, began a rustic address to the prioress, which was 
rather diffuse and very artful. He talked a good deal about 
his age, his infirmities, the growing demands of his work, 
nights to pass, ‘as, for instance, the last, in which he was 
obliged to draw matting over &lt;jhe melon frames, owing to the 
moon ; and he ended with this, that he had a brother (the 
prioress gave a start) — who was not young — that if leave were 
granted, this brother would come and live with him and help 
him ; he was an excellent gardener, and would be of more use 
to the community than himself was ; and that, on the other 
hand, if his brother's services were not accepted, as he felt 
unequal to his work, ho would be compelled to give up his 
situation ; and that his brother had a little girl whom he would 
bring with him, and who would be brought into the house, and 
might, who knew ? become a nun some day. When he had 
finished speaking, the prioress broke off her occupation of 
letting the beads of her rosary slip through her fingers, and 
said, — , 

“ Could you procure a strong iron bar between this and to- 
night ? ” 

“ What to do ? ” 

“ To act as a lever." 

“ Yes, Reverend Mother,” Father Fauchelevent replied. 

The prioress, without adding a syllable, rose and walked 
into the adjoining room, whSre the chapter was assembled. 
Fauchelevent was left alone. 

About a quarter of an hour passed ere the prioress came in 
again, and sat down on her chair. 

“ Father Fauvent, do you know the chapel ? ” 

“ I have a little cage in it where I hear mass and the offices.” 

** A stone will have to be lifted ; the one at the side of the 
altar — that which closes the vault.” 

" That is a job where two men would be useful.” 

“ Mother .tension, who is as strong as a man, will help 
you.' 

” A woman is not a man. My brother is a strong fellow I ^ 



LES MISEBABLES 217 

There was a silence, and the prioress, after a pput of the lower 
lip, which looked like hesitation, continued,— 

Father Fauvent, you are aware that a mother died this 
morning ? ” 

“ No/' 

“ Did you not hear the bell ? " 

“ Nothing can be heard at the end of the garden, I can hardly 
distinguish my own ring/' 

“ She died at day-break, it is Mother Crucifixion, a blessed 
saint. The mothers have carried her into the dead-room ad- 
joining the church. No other fnan but you can or ought to 
enter that room, so keep careful watcL Father Fauvent, 
Mother Crucifixion had a very blessed death. She retained 
her senses up to the last moment ; she spoke to us, and then 
conversed with the angels. She gave us her last commands ; 
if you had more faith, and if you had been in her cell, she would 
have cured your leg by touching it. She smiled, and we all 
felt that she was living again in God,— there was Paradise in 
such a death." 

Fauchelevent fancied that it was the end of a prayer ; 
“ Amen," he said. 

" Father Fauvent, what the dead wish must be carried out." 
The prioress told a few beads. Fauchelevent held hb 
tongue ; then the lady continued,— 

“ Father Fauvent, Mother Crucifixion will be buried in the 
coffin in which she has slept for twenty years." 

“ Then I shall have to nail her up in that coffin ? " 

" Yes." 

And we shall not employ the undertaker's coffin ? ” 

" Exactly." , 

“ I am at the orders of the most Reverend Community.'^ 

** The four singing mothers will help you." 

** To nail up the coffin ? I do not want them." 

“ No, to let It down into the vault under the altar/^ 
Fauchelevent started. 

“ The vault under the altar 1 
** Yes." 

« But 

“ We must obey the dead. It was the last wish of Mother 
iJrucifixion to be buried in the vault under the chapel altar^ 
not to be placed in profane soil, and to remain when dead at 



318 


LES MISERABLES 


the place wherp she had prayed when alive. She asked this ot 
ns, indeed ordered it." 

“ But it is forbidden.” 

” Forbidden by man, ordered by God.'^ 

” Suppose it oozed out ? ” 

” We have confidence in you.” 

” Oh ! I am a stone of your wall.” 

” The chapter is assembled ; the vocal mothers have decided 
that Mother Crucifixion should be interred according to her 
wish, under our altar. Only think, Father Fauvent, if mira- 
cles were to take place here\* what a glory in God for the 
community ! ” 

But, Reverend Mother, supposing the Sanitary Commis- 
sioner ” 

“ The world is as nothing in presence of the cross. What 
do we know about the state, the regulations, the administra- 
tion, and the public undertaker ! Any witnesses would be 
indignant at the. way in which we are treated. The right of 
the monasteries to sepulture is indubitable, and it can only be 
denied by fanatics and schismatics." 

The prioress breathed, and then turned to Fauchelevent. 

“ Father Fauvent, is it settled ? Can we reckon on you ? ” 
” I will obey ; I am entirely devoted to the convent." 

” You will close the coflhi, and the sisters will carry it into 
the chapel. The office for the dead will be read, and then we 
shall return to the cloisters. Between eleven and twelve you 
will come with your iron bar, and everything will be performed 
with the utmost secrecy : there will be no one in the chapel 
but the four singing mothers, Mother Ascension, and yourself." 
" And the sister at the st^e ? ” 

" She will not listen. Moreover, what the convent knows 
the world is ignorant of." 

There was another pause.after which the prioress continued, — 
" You will remove your beU, for it is unnecessary for the 
sister at the stake to notice your presence." 

" Reverend Mother ? ” 

** What is it, Father Fauvent ? ” 

” Has the physician of the dead paid his visit ! ” 

” He will do so at four o'clock to-day : the bell has been 
rmg to give him notice. But do you not hear any ringing ? ” 
” I only pay attention to my own summons.” 



LES MISIRABLES 219 

** Veij good, Father Fauvent, about three quarters of an 
Wvir before midnight, do not forget." 

“ Reverend Mother, if you have other jobs like this, my 
brother is a strong fellow for you, a Turk." 

** You will be as quick as possible." 

“ I cannot do things quickly, for I am infirm, and for that 
reason require an assistant. I halt." 

" Father Fauvent, now I think of it, take a whole hour, for 
it will not be too much. Be at the High Altar with your 
crowbar at eleven o'clock, for the service begins at midnight, 
and all must be finished a good quarter of an hour previously." 

“ I will do everything to prove my zeal to the community. 
I will nail up the coffin, and be in the chapel at eleven o'clock 
precisely. Two men would be better, but no matter, I shall 
have my crowbar, we will open the vault, let down the coffin, 
and close it again. Reverend Mother, is all arranged thus ^ " 

" No." 

" What is there still ? ” 

“ There is the empty coffin.” 

This was a difficulty ; Fauchelevent thought of and on it, 
and so did the prioress. 

Father Fauvent, what must be done with the other coffin?* 

‘‘ It must be buried.” 

" Empty? " 

Another silence. Fauchelevent made with his left hand 
that sort of gesture which dismisses a disagreeable question. 

“ Reverend Mother, I will nail up the coffin and cover it 
with the pall." 

“ Yes,’ but the bearers, while placing it in the hearse, and 
lowering it into the grave, will soon perceive that there is 
nothing in it.” 

" Oh, the de — I " Fauchelevent exclaimed. The prioress 
began a cross, and looked intently at the gardener ; the evil 
stuck in his throat, and he hastily improvised an expedient to 
eause the oath to be forgotten. 

" Reverend Mother, I will put earth in the coffin, which will 
produce the effect of a body.” 

You are right, for earth is the same as a human being. 
So you will manage the empty coffin ? ” 

“ I take it on myself.” 

The face of the prioress, which had hitherto been troubled 



220 


LES MISERABLES 


and clouded, now grew serene. She made the sign of a superior 
■ dismissing an inferior, and Fauchelevent walked towards 
door. As he was going out the prioress gently raised her 
voice. 

“Father Fauvent, I am satisfied with you; to-morrow, 
after the interment, bring me your brother, and tell him to 
bring me his daughter.” 

Monsieur Fauchelevent was perplexed, and he spent up- 
wards of a quarter of an hour in returning to the garden cot- 
tage. Cosette was awake, and Jean Valjcan had seated her 
by the fire-side. At the moment when Fauchelevent entered 
Jean Valjean was pointing to the gardener’s hoUe leaning in a 
corner, and saying to her, — 

“ Listen to me carefully, little Cosette. We are obliged to 
leave this house, but shall return to it, and be very happy. 
The good man will carry you out in that thing upon his back, 
and you will wait for me with a lady till I come to fetch you. 
If you do not wish Madame Thenardier to catch you again, 
obey and say not a word.” 

Cosette nodded her head gravely ; at the sound Fauchelevent 
made in opening the door Valjean turned round. 

“WeU?” 

“ All is arra-nged, and nothing is so,” said Fauchelevent. 
“ I have leave to bring you in, but Xb bring you in you must go 
out. That is the difliculty ; it is easy enough with the little 
one, but how the deuce are you going to get out ? for every- 
thing must be settled to-morrow, as the prioress expects you 
then.” 

Then he explained to Valjean that it was a reward for a 
service which he, Fauchelevent^ was rendering the community. 
It was part of his duty to attend to the funerals, nail up the 
coffin, and assist the grave-digger at the cemetery. The nun 
who had died that morning requested to be buried, in the coffin 
which served her as bed, in the vault under the altar of the 
chapel. This was forbidden by the police regulations, but she 
was one of those women to whom nothing could be refused. 
The prioress and vocal mothers intended to carry out the wishes 
of the deceased, and so, all the worse for the government. 
He, Fauchelevent, would nail up the coffin in the cell, lift the 
stone in the chapel, and let down the body into the vault. As 
a reward for the prioress would adi^t into the house his 



LES MISERABLES 


brother as gardener, and his niece as boarder. The prioress 
had told him to bring his brother the next day after the pre- 
tended funeral, but he could not bring M. Madeleine in from 
outride if he were not there. This was his first embarrassmentj 
and then he had a second in the empty coff n. 

“ What do you mean by the empty cofiin ? ” Valjean asked. 

“ A nun dies, and the physician of the municipality comes 
and says, — ‘ There is a nun dead.’ Government sends a coffin, 
the next day it sends a hearse and undertaker’^ men to fetch 
the coffin and carry it to the cemetery. They will come and 
lift the coffin, and there’s nothing in it.” 

“ Put something in it.” 

“ A dead person ? I haven’t such a thing.” 

“ Well, then, a living one.” 

“Who?” 

“ Myself,” said Jean Valjean. 

“ Oh, you are joking, not speaking seriously.” 

“ Most seriously. Must I not get out of here ? ” 

“ Of course.” 

“ The point is to get out unseen, and that is a way. Where 
is the coffin ? ” 

“ In what is called the dead-house. It is upon two trestles, 
and covered with the pall.” 

“ What is the length of the coffin ? ’* 

“Six feet.” 

“ What is this dead-house ? ” 

** A ground-floor room wuth a grated window looldng on the 
garden, and two doors, one leading to the church, the other to 
the convent.” 

“ What church ? ” 

“ The street church, the one open to everybody.” 

“ Have you the keys of these doors ? ” 

“ No, I have the key of the one communicating with the 
convent, but the porter has the other.” 

“ When does he open it ? ” 

“ Only to let the men pass who come to fetch the body. 
When the coffin has gone out the door is locked again.” 

“ Who nails up the coffin ? Who places the pall over 
it?” 

“I do.” 

“ Are you alone ? ” 



LES MISEBABLES 


No other man, excepting the doctor, is allowed to enter 
the dead-house. It is written on the wall.” 

“ Could you hide m6 in that house to-night, when all are 
asleep in the convent ? ” 

No, but I can liide you in a dark hole opening out of the 
dead-house, in which I put the burial tools, of which I have the 
key.” 

“ At what hour to-morrow will the hearse come to fetch the 
body ? ” c 

“ At three in the afternoon. The interment takes place at 
the Vaugirurd Cemetery a little before nightfall, for the gi’ound 
is not very near here,” 

“ I will remain concealed in your tool-house during the 
night and morning. How about food ? for I shall be hungry.” 

“ I will bring you some.” 

“ You can nail me up in the coffin at two o’clock.” Fauche- 
levent recoiled and cracked his finger-bones. 

“ Oh, it is impossible I ” 

What seemed to Fauchelevent extraordinary was quite 
simple to Jean Valjean, for he had gone through worse straits, 
and any man who has been a prisoner knows how to reduce 
himself to the diameter of the mode of escape. To be nailed 
up and carried in a box, to live for a long time in a pacldng- 
case, to find air when there is non^ to economize one’s breath 
for hours, to manage to choke without dying, was one of Jean 
Valjean’s melancholy talents. 

“ But how will you manage to breathe ? ” 

“ You have a gimlet. You will make a few holes round the 
mouth, and nail dowm the lid, without closing it tightly. 
I must cither be captured here or go out in the hearse. The 
only thing I am anxious about is what will take place at the 
cemetery.” 

“ There is the very thing I am not anxious about,” said 
Fauchelevent ; “ if you feel sure of getting out of the coffin, I 
feel sure of getting you out of the grave. The grave-digger is 
a friend of mine, and a drunkard, of the name of Father Mes- 
tionne. We shall arrive a little before twilight, three quarters 
of an hour before the cemetery gates are closed. The hearse 
will drive up to the grave, and 1 shall follow ; I shall have a 
hammer, a chisel, and pincers in my pocket ; the hearse stops, 
the undertaker knots a cord round your coffin and lets you 



LES MISEBABLES 


down ; the priest says the prayers, sprinkles the holy water, 
aud bolts ; I remain alone with Father Mestienne. If he is 
not drunk, I shall say to him, * Come and have a drain before 
th6 Bon Going closes/ I take him away, make him drunk, 
which does not take long, as he has always made a beginning ; 
I lay him under the table, take his card, and return to the ceme- 
tery withorut him. You will have only to deal with me. If he is 
drunk, I shaU say to him, * Be o£E, I will do your work for you.' 
He will go, and I get you out of the hole.'* 

Jean Valjean held out his hand, which Father Fauchelevent 
seized with a touching peasant devotion. 

“ It is settled, Father Fauchelevent. All will go well." 

The next day, as the sun was setting, the few' passers-by on 
the Boulevard du Maine took o£E their hats to an old-fashioned 
hearse, ornamented with death's head, thigh-bones, and tears. 
In this hearse was a coffin covered with a white pall, on which 
lay an enormous black cross, like a tall dead woman with 
hanging arms. A draped carriage, in which could be noticed 
a priest in his surplice, and a chorister in his red skull cap, 
followed. Two mutes in a grey uniform with black facings 
walked on the right and left of the hearse, while behind them 
came an old man in workman's garb, who halted. The proces- 
sion proceeded toward the Vaugirard Cemetery. This ceme- 
tery had its peculiar usages/ The Bernardo-Benedictines of the 
Little Picpus had obtained permission to be buried there in a 
separate corner, and by night, because the cemetery had for- 
merly belonged to their community. The grave-diggers, hav- 
ing thus an evening duty in summer and a night duty in winter, 
were subjected to special rules. The gates of Parisian ceme- 
teries were closed at that period at sunset. If any grave- 
digger were detained at that moment in the cemetery, he had 
only one way to get out, his card, with which the undertaker’s 
department supplied him. There was a species of letter-box in 
the shutter of the porter's window ; the grave-digger threw his 
card into this box, the porter heard it fall, pulled the string, and 
the small gate opened If the grave-digger had not his card, 
he gave his name ; the porter got up, recognized him, and 
opened the gate with his key ; but in that case the grave- 
digger paid a fine of fifteen francs. 

The sun had not yet set when the hearse with the white pall 
and black cross entered the avenue of this cemetery, and the 



224 


LES MISEBABLES 


halting man who followed it was no other than Fauchelevent. 
The interment of Mother Crucifixion in the vault under the 
altar, getting Cosette out, and introducing Jean Valjean into 
the dead-house, had been effected without the slightest hitch. 

Fauchelevent limped after the hearse with great satisfaction ; 
his twin plots, the one with the nuns, the other with M. 
Madeleine, one for, the other against, the convent, were getting 
on famously. What he still had to do was nothing. He could do 
what he liked with Father Mestienne, and his head exactly 
fitted Fauchelevent's cap. The gardener's security was com- 
plete. 

All at once the hearse stopped ; it had reached the gates, 
and the permission for burying must be shown. The under- 
taker conversed with the porter, and during this colloquy, 
a stranger stationed himself behind the hearse by Fauchele- 
vent*s side. He was a sort of workman, holding a spade under 
his arm. Fauchelevent looked at the stranger, and asked 
him, — 

“ Who are you ? " 

The man replied, “ The grave-digger." 

If any man could survive a cannon-ball right in the middle 
of Lis chest, he would cut such a face as Fauchelevent did, 

" Why, Father Mestienne is the grave-digger." 

" He is dead." 

Fauchelevent was prepared for anything except this, that 
a grave-digger could die ; and, yet, it is true that grave-dig- 
gers themselves die ; while digging holes for others, they pre- 
pare one for themselves. Fauchelevent stood with widely- 
opened mouth, and had scarce strength to stammer, — 

" Why, it is impossible. ¥he grave-digger is Father Mes- 
tienne." 

" After Napoleon, Louis XVIII. After Mestienne, Gribier. 
Rustic, my name is Gribier." 

Fauchelevent, who was very pale, stared at Gribier, a tall, 
thin, livid, thoroughly funereal man. He looked like a broken- 
down doctor who had turned grave-digger. Fauchelevent 
burst into a laugh. 

Ah, what fanny things do happen ! And so Father 
Mestienne is dead ; I feel sorry for him, as he was a jolly fellow. 
But you are a jolly fellow too, are you not, comrade 1 We 
will drink a glass together, eh ? " 



LES MISERABLES 


225 


The man answered, “ I have studied, and I never drink.” 

The hearse had set out again, and was now going along 
the main avenue. Fauchelevent had decreased his pace, and 
limped more through anxiety than infirmity. The grave- 
digger walked in front of him, and Fauchelevent once again sur- 
veyed this unknown Gribier. He was one of those men who, 
when young, look old, and who, though thin, are very strong. 

“ Comrade ! ” Fauchelevent cried, “ I am the convent 
grave-digger.” 

“ My colleague,” the man said. 

“ Are we not going to form an acquaintance ? ” Fauchcle- 
vent stammered. ' 

“ It is formed. You are a rustic, I am a Parisian,” 

” People never know one another thoroughly till they have 
drunk together. You will come and drink with me, such an 
oiler cannot be refused.” 

” Work first.” 

Fauchelevent thought, “ It^s all over with me.” 

The hearse left the main avenue, and turned down a smaller 
one, which indicated the immediate proximity of the grave. 
Fauchelevent reduced his pace, but could not reduce that of the 
hearse. He drew closer to the grave-digger. 

“ There is such a capital Argenteuil wine,” he muttered. 

** Villager,” the man replied, “ I was not meant to be a 
grave-digger. My father was porter at the Prytanajum, and 
destined me for literature, but he was unfortunate in his 
speculations on the Exchange. Hence I was compelled to 
relinquish the profession of author, but I am still a public 
writer. I have my writer's stall at the market in the Rue de 
S^^vre^ — ^you know, the umbrella^ market ? All the cooks of 
the Croix Rouge apply to me, and I compose their declara- 
tions to the soldiers. In the morning I write billets-doux, in 
the evening I dig graves ; such is life, Rustic.” 

The hearse went on, and Fauchelevent looked all about 
him with the greatest anxiety ; heavy drops of perspiration 
fell from his forehead. 

“ Still,” the grave-digger continued, ” a man cannot serve 
two mistresses, and I must choose between the pick and the 
pen. The pick ruins my hand.” 

The hearse stopped ; the chorister got out of the coach, 
and then the priest. One of the small front wheels of the 

H 



226 


LES MISERABLES 


hearse was slightly raised by a heap of earth, beyond which an 
open grave was visible. 

Who was in the coffin ? It was, as we know, Jean Val- 
jean, who had so contrived as to be able to live in it, and could 
almost breathe. Never was a situation more critical. The 
death of Father Mestienne baffled the whole combina- 
tion. 

The four planks of a coffin exhale a species of terrible peace, 
and it seemed as if some of the repose of the dead were blended 
with Valjean's tranquillity. .From the bottom of this coffin 
he had been able to follow all the phases of the formidable 
drama which he performed with death. A short while after 
Fauchelevent had finished nailing down the coffin lid, Valjean 
felt himself raised and then carried along. Through the 
cessation of the jolting he felt that they had passed from the 
pavement to the stamped earth, and had turned into the 
boulevards. From the hollow sound he guessed that he was 
crossing the Bridge of Austerlitz ; at the first halt, he under- 
stood that he was entering the cemetery, and at the sound he 
said to himself, i “ Here is the grave." 

He suddenly felt hands seize the coffin, and then noticed 
a rumbling grating on the planks : he guessed that a rope was 
being fastened round the coffin in order to let it down into the 
grave. After this, he felt dizzy fof a while ; in all probability 
the men had made the coffin oscillate and let the head down 
before the feet. He perfectly recovered when he found him- 
self horizontal and motionless. He felt a certain amount of 
cold, as a chill and solemn voice was raised above him, and he 
heard the Latin words, which he did not understand, pass away 
so slowly that he could distinguish each in turn. 

Qui dormiunt %n terrcB pulvere emgilabunt ; alii in vitam 
aiermmj et alii in opprobrium, vt oideant semper. 

A boyish voice said, — De profundis. 

The grave voice began again, — 

Requiem cBiernam dorui ei, Domine. 

The boyish voice replied, — 

Et lux perpetua luceal ei! 

fie heard something like the gentle plash of rain upon the 
coffin lid ; it was, probably, the holy water. He thought, 
** It is finished ; and I only need a little patience. The priest 
will go away, and Fauchelevent take Mestienne off to wnk. 



LES MISERABLES 227 

I shall be left here till Fauchelevent returns alone, and I shalJ 
get out. It will take about an hour.” 

The grave voice continued, — 

Requiescat in pace. 

And the boyish voice said, — 

Amen. 

Jean Valjean, who was listening attentively, heard some- 
thing like the sound of retreating footsteps. 

“ They are going away,” he thought. “ I ajn alone.” AL 
at once he heard over his head a noise which appeared to him 
like a thunder-clap ; it was a spade-full of earth falling on 
the coffin, — a second spade-full fell, and one of the holes by 
which he breathed was stopped , — sl third shovel-full fell, and 
then a fourth. There are some things stronger than the 
strongest man, and Jean Valjean lost his senses. 

When the hearse had gone away, Fauchelevent, who did not 
once take his eyes off the grave-digger, saw him stoop down 
and seize his spade, which was standing upright in the heap of 
earth. Fauchelevent formed a supreme resolution : he placed 
himself between the grave and the digger, folded his arms, and 
said, — 

“ Listen to me, mate ; I am the convent grave-digger, and 
have come to help you. It is a job which can be done by 
night, so let us begin by going to have a drain. 1 offer to 
pay.” 

‘‘ When we have put the child to bed,” said Gribier. 

He threw a spade-full of earth, and then added, as he dug 
the shovel into the ground, 

” It will be very cold to-night ! and the dead woman would 
hallo after us if we were to leave*her here without a blanket.” 

At this moment the grave-digger stooped to fill his spade, 
and his jacket pocket gaped. Fauchelevent's wandering 
glance fell mechanically into his pocket. The sun was not 
yet hidden by the horizon, and there was still sufficient light 
to distinguish something white at the bottom of this gaping 
pocket. 

Unnoticed by the grave-digger, he thrust hia hand into it 
from behind, and drew out the white thing at the bottom. 
The grave-digger threw another shovel-full into the grave, 
and as he hurried to raise a third, Fauchelevent looked at him 
with profound calmness, and said, — 



228 


LES MISERABLES 


By the way, my novice, have you your card ? The sun 
is just going to set." 

“ Ah, my card ! " tlie grave-digger said : and he felt in 
one pocket, and then in another. 

“ No," he said, “ I must have forgotten it." 

“ Fifteen francs fine," said Fauchelevent. 

The grave-digger turned green, for the pallor of- livid men 
is green. 

“ 0 Lord, have mercy upon me," he exclaimed ; “ fifteen 
francs fine ! ” 

The grave-digger let his shovel fall ; Fauchelevent's turn 
had arrived. 

“ Come, conscript," said the old gardener, “ no despair ; 
you need not take advantage of the grave to commit suicide. 
Fifteen francs are fifteen francs, and besides, you can avoid 
paying thorn. I am up to all the tricks and dodges. I will 
give you a piece of friendly advice. One thing is clear, the 
sun is setting, it is touching the dome, and the cemetery will 
shut in five minutes, which will not be enough for you to fill 
up this grave, which is deuced deep, and reach the gates in 
time to get out before they close. Where do you live ? " 

“ Hardly a quarter of an hour’s walk from here, at No. 87, 
Rue de Vaugirard." 

“ You have just time enough td^get out, if you look sharp. 
Once outside the gates, you will gallop home and fetch your 
card, and when you return the porter will open the gate for 
you gratis. And you will bury your dead woman, whom 1 
will stop from running away during your absence." 

" I owe you my life, peasant." 

“ Be off at once," said Fauchelevent. 

When he had disappeared behind a clump of trees, Fauche- 
levent listened till his footsteps died away, then bent over the 
grave, and said in a low voice, — Father Madeleine ! " 

There was no reply. Fauchelevent trembled : he tumbled 
all of a heap into the grave, took out his cold chisel and ham- 
mer, and prized oS the coffin-lid. He could see Jean Val- 
jean’s face in the gloom, pale, and with the eyes closed. Fauc- 
helevent murmured in a voice faint as a breath, " He is dead ! ** 

And drawing himself up, he folded his arms so violently 
that his clenched fists struck his shoulders, and cried, " That 
is the way in which I save him ! " 



LES MISEBABLES 


229 


A shrill grating sound was audible at a distance through 
the trees : it was the closing of the cemetery gate. Fauche- 
levent bent over Jean Valjean, and all at once bounded back 
to the further end of the grave— Jean Valjean^s eyes were open 
and staring at him. 

Fauchelevent became like stone. He was pale, haggard, 
confounded by such excessive emotion, not knowing if he had 
to do with a dead man or a living man, and looking at Jean 
Valjean, who looked at him. 

Jean Valjean had only fainted, and the fresh air aroused 
him again. Joy is the reflux of terror, and Fauchelevent had 
almost as much difficulty in recovering himself as had Jean 
Valjean. 

“ I am cold,” said Valjean. 

‘‘ Let us get out of this at once, ” said Fauchelevent. 

He felt in his pocket, and produced a flask. 

“ But a dram first,” he said. 

The flask completed what the fresh air had begun. Val- 
joan drank a mouthful of spirits and regained perfect posses- 
sion of himself. He got out of the coffin, and helped Fauche- 
levent to nail on the lid again : three minutes later they were 
out of the grave. 

When the grave was filled up, Fauchelevent said, — 

” Come along : you carfy the pick, and I will carry the 
spade.” 

They went along the avenues by which the hearse had 
passed, and, on reaching the gate, Fauchelevent threw the 
grave-digger's card into the box ; the porter pulled the string, 
and they went out. 

“ How famously it has all gctic,” said Fauchelevent ; ” it 
was an excellent idea you had. Father Madeleine ! ” 

On the morrow two bells were heard in the convent gar- 
den, and the nuns could not resist the temptation of raising a 
corner of their veils. They could see under the shade of the 
trees two men digging side by side, Fauvent and another. It 
was an enormous event, and silence was so far broken that 
they whispered, ” It is an assistant gardener, a brother of 
Father Pauvent's.” 

Jean Valjean was in fact permanently installed ; he had 
the leathern knee-cap and bell, and was henceforth official. 
He called himself Ultime Fauchelevent. 



LES MISERABLES 


Goaette became a boarder at the convent, and waa obliged 
to assume the garb of the pupils of the house. Jean Valjean 
begged and obtained the old clothes she left off ; the same 
mourning clothes he made her put on when he removed her 
from the Tlienardiers', and they were not much worn. Jean 
Valjean placed these clothes and her shoes and stockings, with 
a quantity of camphor and other odorous drugs with which 
convents abound, in a small valise which he managed to pro- 
cure. He placed this valise on a chair by his bed-side, and 
always had the key about him. 

The nuns did not adopt the name of Ultimo ; they called 
Jean Valjean “ the other Fauvent.” Had these holy women 
had any of Javert’s temper about them, they must have 
noticed that when anything had to be procured from outside 
for the garden it was always “the elder Fauvent, the cripple, 
who went out, and never the other ; but either because eyes 
constantly fixed on God know not how to spy, or because 
they preferred to watch one another, they paid no attention 
to the fact. However, Jean Valjean did quite right in keep- 
ing shy and not stirring, for Javert watched the quarter for a 
whole month. 

Cosette had permission to spend an hour daily with Val- 
jean, and as the sisters were sad and he was kind, the child com- 
pared them and adored him. At the fixed hour she ran to the 
cottage, and when she entered it filled it with paradise. In 
her hours of recreation Jean Valjean watched her from a dis- 
tance, playing and running, and distinguished her laugh from 
that of the others, for Cosette now laughed. Her face had 
also changed to a certain extent, for laughter is the sun 
which drives winter from the human face. When Cosette 
returned to her studies Jean Valjean watched the windows 
of her school-room, and at night would rise to gaze at the 
windows of her dormitory. 

All that surrounded him, this peaceful garden, these fragrant 
flowers, these children uttering merry cries, these grave and 
simple women, these silent cloisters, slowly penetrated him, 
and gradually his soul was composed of silence like this 
cloister, of perfume like these flowers, of peace like this gar- 
den, of simplicity like these women, and of joy like these chil- 
dren* And then he thought how two houses of God had in 
turn received him at the two critical moments of his life. 



LES MISEBABLES 231 

the first when all doors were closed and human society re- 
pulsed him, the second at the moment when human society 
was beginning to hunt him down again, and the hulks were 
yawning for him ; and that, had it not been for the former, 
he would have fallen back into crime, and but for the latter, 
into punishment. All his heart melted into gratitude, and 
he loved more and more. 

Several years passed thus, and Cosette grew. 


CHAPT5tR XI 

Eight or nine years after the events recorded in the recent 
portion of this story, there might be noticed on the Boule- 
vard du Temple and in the regions of the Chateau d'Eau, a 
boy of about eleven or twelve years of age. This child was 
dressed in a man^s trousers, but he had not got them from 
his father, and a woman’s jacket, which did not come from 
his mother. Some persons had clothed him in rags out of 
charity. Yet he had a father and a mother, but his father 
did not think of him, and his mother did not love him. He 
was one of those children worthy of pity before all, who have 
father and mother, and are orphans. 

This child was never so comfortable anywhere as in the 
street, for the paving-stonss were less hard to him than his 
mother's heart. His parents had kicked him out into life, 
and he had simply tried his wings. He was a noisy, pale, 
active, sharp, impudent lad, with a cunning and sickly look. 
He came and went, sang, played at hopscotch, searched the 
gutters pilfered a little, but gaily, like cats and sparrows, 
laughed w^hen he was called a gcamp, and felt angry when 
called a thief. He had no bed, no bread, no fire, no love ; 
but he was happy because he was free. 

Still, so abandoned as this child was, it happened every 
two or three months that he said, — Well, I'll go and see 
mamma." Then he quitted the Boulevard, the Circus, the 
Porte St. Martin, went along the quay, crossed the bridge, 
reached the Salpetri^re, and arrived where 1 Exactly at that 
double No. 60-62, which the reader knows, the Maison Gor- 
beau. At this period No. 60-52, which was habitually de- 
serted and eternally decorated with a bill of " Lodgings to 
Let,” was, strange to say, inhabited by several persons, who 



232 


LES MISERABLES 


had no acquaintance with each other, as is always the case in 
Paris. All belonged to that indigent class which begins with 
the last small tradesman in difficulties, and is prolonged, from 
wretchedness to wretchedness, to those two beings to whom 
all the material things of civilization descend, the scavenger 
and the rag-picker. 

The chief lodger of Jean Valjean's day was dead, and her 
place had been taken by another exactly like her. This new 
old woman was called Madame Burgon, and had nothing re- 
markable in her life save a dynasty of three parrots, which 
had successively reigned over her soul. The most wretched 
of all the persons inhabiting the house were a family of four 
persons, father, mother, and two nearly grown-up daughters, 
all four living in the same attic, one of the cells to which we 
have alluded. 

This family offered at the first glance nothing very pecu- 
liar beyond its denudation; and the father, on hiring the 
room, stated that his name was Jondrette. A short time 
after he moved in, which had borne a striking resemblance — 
to employ the memorable remark of the chief lodger — ^to the 
coming in of nothing at all, this Jondrette had said to the 
woman, who, like her predecessor, was also porteress and 
swept the stairs, “ Mother So and So, if any one were to ask 
by chance for a Pole, or an Italian, or perhaps a Spaniard, I 
am the party/' 

This w^as the family of the merry little vagabond. He 
joined it, and found distress, and, what is sadder still, not a 
smile ; a cold hearth and cold heart. When he entered, they 
asked him, “ Where do you come from 1 " and he answered, 
“ From the street : " when ,he went away, “ Where are you 
going ? " and be answered, “ To the street.” 

On the boulevard the lad was called Little Gavroche. Why 
was he called Gavroche ? Probably, because his father's 
name was Jondrette. Breaking the thread seems the instinct 
of some wretched families. The room which the Jondrettes 
occupied at the Maison Gorbeau was the last in the passage, 
and the cell next to it was occupied by a very poor young man 
of the name of Monsieur Marius. Let us state who this 
Monsieur Marius was. 

There are still a few persons residing in the Rue Bouche** 
xat. Rue de Normandie, and Rue de Saintonge, who can re- 



LES MISEBABLES 


233 


member a gentleman of the name of M. Gillenormand, and 
speak kindly about him. This man was old when they were 
young, and this profile has not entirely disappeared, with 
those who look sadly at the vague congregation of shadows 
called the past, from the labyrinth of streets near the Temple, 
wliich, in the reign of Louis XIV., received the names of all 
the provinces of France, exactly in the same way as in our 
time the names of all the capitals of Europe have been given 
to the streets in the new Tivoli quarter ; a progression, by 
the bye, in which progress is ^visible. 

M. Gillenormand, who was most lively in 1831, was one 
of those men who have become curious to look on, solely be- 
cause they have lived a long time. He was a peculiar old 
man, the complete and rather haughty bourgeois of the 
eighteenth century, who carried his honest old bourgeoisie 
with the same air as Marquises did their marquisate. He had 
passed his ninetieth year, walked upright, talked, loudly, saw 
clearly, and drank heartily. He still had his two-and- thirty 
teeth, and only wore spectacles to read with. He was of an 
amorous temper, but said that for the last ten years he had 
decidedly and entirely given up the sex. “ He could not 
please,” he said : and he did not add “ I am too old,” but “ I 
am too poor. If I were not ruined — he, he, he ! ” In fact, 
all that was left him was am income of about fifteen thousand 
francs. His dream was to make a large inheritance, and 
have one hundred thousand francs a year, in order to keep 
mistresses. As we see, he did not belong to that weak variety 
of octogenarians, who, like M. de Voltaire, were dying all 
their life ; his longevity was not that of the cracked jug, and 
this jolly old gentleman had coAstantly enjoyed good health. 
He was superficial, rapidly and easily angered, and he vrould 
storm at the slightest thing, most usually an absurd trifle. 
When he was contradicted, he raised his cane, and thrashed his 
people, as folk used to do in the great age. He had a daugh- 
ter, upwards of fifty years of age and unmarried, whom he gave 
a hearty thrashing to when he was in a passion, and whom he 
would have liked to whip, for he fancied her eight years of age. 

He lived in the Marais, at No. 6, Eue des Filles de Cal- 
vaire, and the house belonged to him. He occupied an old 
and vast suite of rooms on the first floor, furnished up to the 
ceiling with large Gobelins and Beauvais tapestry, represent- 



234 


LES mSERABLES 


ing shepherd scenes. He surrounded his bed with an im- 
mense screen of Coromandel lacquer work; long curtains 
hung from the windows, and made very splendid, large, broken 
folds. The garden immediately under the windows was 
reached by a flight of twelve or fifteen steps running from 
one of them, which the old gentleman went up and down 
very nimbly. In addition to a library adjoining ‘his bed- 
room, he had a boudoir, which he was very fond of, a gallant 
withdrawing-room, hung with a magnificent fleur-de-lysed 
tapestry, made in the galleys of Louis XIV., which M. de 
Vivonne had ordered of his convicts for his mistress. M. 
Gillenormand inherited this from a stem maternal great- 
aunt, who died at tiie age of one hundred. He had had two 
wives. His manners were midway between those of the 
courtier, which he had never been, and of the barrister, which 
he might have been. He was gay and pleasing when he 
liked ; in his youth he had been one of those men who are 
always deceived by their wives, and never by their mistresses, 
because they are at once the most disagreeable husbands and 
the most charming lovers imaginable. Even in his old age 
he had the reputation of being a gay fellow. One day, a 
big baby, wrapped in rags, was brought to him in a basket, 
which a maid-servant, named la Magnon, whom he had dis- 
charged, attributed to him. M. Txillenormand was then in 
his eighty-fourth year, and though people around him were 
indignant, he did not feel at all angry, and had the child, a 
boy, taken care of. When Magnon sent him a second parcel 
next year, also a boy, he sent the two brats to their mother, 
agreeing to pay eighty francs a month for their support, but 
on condition that she was not to begin again, and that they 
should be well-treated. 

Such was M. Luc Esprit Gillenormand, who had not lost 
his hair, which was rather grey than white, and always wore 
it in dog’s ears. Altogether he was venerable, and contained 
both the frivolity and grandeur of the eighteenth century. 

M. Gillenormand had had two daughters, bom at an 
interval of ten years. The younger was a charming crea- 
ture, who turned to the light, loved flowers, poetry, and 
music, was enthusiastical, ethereal, and mentally betrothed 
from her youth up to some heroic figure. The elder had her 
chimera too ; she saw in the asure a contractor, some fat and 



LES MISEEABLES 


236 


very rich man, a splendidly stupid husband, a million con- 
verted into a man, or else a prefect. The two sisters want 
dered each in her own reverie, at the period when they were 
girls, and both had wings, the one those of an angel, the 
other those of a goose. 

No ambition is fully realized, at least not in this nether 
world, aud no paradise becomes earthly in our age. The 
younger married the man of her dreams, but she was dead, 
w'hile the elder did not marry. At the period when she 
enters into our narrative, she was an old virtue, an incom- 
bustible pride, with one of tlie most acute noses and most 
obtuse intellects imaginable. It is a characteristic fact that 
beyond her family, no one had ever known her family name ; 
she was called Mademoiselle Gillcnormand the elder. In the 
matter of cant, Mademoiselle Gillenormand could have given 
points to a Miss, and she was modesty carried to the verge 
of blackness. She had one frightful reminiscence in her life 
— one day a man saw her garter. 

Age had only heightened this pitiless modesty, — her che- 
misette was never sufficiently opaque, and never was high 
enough. She multiplied brooches and pins at places where 
no one dreamed of looking. The peculiarity of prudery is 
to station the more sentries the less the fortress is menaced. 
Still, let who will explaiu these old mysteries of innocence, 
she allowed herself to be kissed without displeasure by an 
officer in the Lancers, who was her grand-nephew, and Theo- 
dule by name. In spite of this favoured Lancer, however, 
the ticket of “ Prude which we have set upon her, suited 
her exactly. Mademoiselle Gillenormand's was a species of 
twilight soul, and prudery is a semi-virtue, and a semi-vice. 
She added to prudery the congenial lining of bigotry ; she 
belonged to the Sisterhood of the Virgin, wore a white veil on 
certain saints’ days, muttered special orisons, revered “ the 
holy blood," venerated “ the sacred heart," remained for 
hours in contemplation before a rococo Jesuit altar in a 
closed chapel, and allowed her soul to soar among the little 
marble clouds and through the large beams of gilt wood. 

She had a chapel friend, an old maid like herself, of the 
name of Mile Vaubois, absolutely imbecile, and by whose, 
side Mile Gillenormand had the pleasure of being an eagle 
Beyond Agnus Deis and Ave Marias, Mile Vaubois Icnew no- 



236 


LES MISEBABLES 


thing except the different ways of making preserves. Perfect 
of her genius, slie was the ermine of stupidity, without a 
single spot of intelligence. We must add that Mile Gille- 
normand rather gained than lost by growing old. She had 
never been wicked, which is a relative goodness ; and then 
years abrade angles. She kept house for her father ; such 
families, consisting of an old man and an old maid^ are not 
rare, and have the ever touching appearance of two weak- 
nesses supporting each other. 

There was also in this house a child, a little boy, who was 
always trembling and dumb in the old gentleman's presence, 
M. Gillenonnand never spoke to this boy except with a stern 
voice, and at times with up-raised cane. “ Come here, sir, — 
scamp, scoundrel, come here, — answer me, fellow, — let me 
see you, vagabond ! " etc. etc. ' He adored him ; it was his 
grandson, and we sliall moot him again. 

M. Gillenormand had formerly lived in the Bue Sirvan- 
doni, at which time he frequented several very good salons. 
Although a bourgeois, M. Gillenormand was w'elcome in them. 
About 1817, he invariably spent two afternoons a wxek at 
the house of the Baronne de T , a worthy and respect- 

able person, whose husband had been, under Louis XVL, Am- 
bassador to Berlin. The Baron de T , who, when alive, 

was passionately devoted to magTfbtic ecstasies and visions, 
died abroad a ruined man, leaving as his sole fortune ten MS. 
volumes bound in red morocco and gilt-edged, which contained 
very curious memoirs about Mesmer and his trough. Madame 

de T did not publish these memoirs through dignity, and 

lived on a small annuity, wliich survived no one knew how. 

Madame de T lived away .from Court, “ which was a very 

mixed society," as she said, in noble, proud, and poor isola- 
tion. Some friends collected twice a week round her widow's 
fire, and this constituted a pure Boyalist salon. Tea was 
drunk, and people uttered there, according as the wind blew 
to elegiacs or dithyrambics, groans or cries of horror, about 
the age, the charter, the Bonapartists, the prostitution of the 
Cordon Bleu to untitled persons, and the Jacobinism of Louis 
XVIII.; and they also whispered about the hopes which 
Monsieur, afterwards Charles X., produced. M. Gillenor- 
mand was generally accompanied by his daughter, a tall young 
lady, who at that time was forty, and look^ fifty ; and by a 



LES MISERABLES 


237 


pretty boy of nine years of age, red and white, fresh, with 
happy, confident eyes, who never appeared in this drawing- * 
room without hearing all the voices buzz around him, — 
“ llow pretty he is ! what a pity, poor boy ! ” This lad was 
the one to whom we referred just now, and he was called 
‘‘ poor boy ” because he had for father “ a brigand of the 
Loire/' This brigand was the son-in-law of M. Gillenormand, 
and the old gentleman called him the “ disgrace of his family/’ 

Any one who had passed at that period thorough the little 
town of Vernon, and walked on the handsome stone bridge, 
vrould have noticed, on looking over the parapet, a man of 
about fifty, wearing a leathern cap, and trousers and jacket 
of coarse grey cloth, to which something yellow, which had 
been a red ribbon, was sewn, with a face tanned by the sun, 
and almost black, and hair almost white, with a large scar on 
bis forehead and running down his cheek, bowed and pre- 
maturely aged, walking almost every day, spade and pick in 
hand, in one of the walled enclosures near the bridge, which 
border, like a belt of terraces, the left bank of the Seine. 
There are delicious enclosures full of flowers, of which you 
might say, were they much larger, “ they are gardens,” and 
if they were a little smaller, “ they are bouquets.” All these 
enclosures join the river at^ pne end, and a house at the other. 
The man in the jacket and wooden shoes, to whom we have 
alluded, occupied in 1817 the narrowest of these enclosures 
and the smallest of these houses. He lived there alone and 
solitary, silently and poorly, with a woman who was neither 
young nor old, neither pretty nor ugly, neither peasant nor 
bourgeoise, who waited on him. The square of land which 
he called his garden was celebrated in the town for the beauty 
of the flowers he cultivated, and they were his occupation. 

From daybreak in summer he was in his walks, picking 
out, clipping, hoeing, watering, or moving among his flowers, 
with an air of kindness, sorrow, and gentleness. At times 
he would stand thoughtful and motionless for hours, listening 
to the song of a bird in a tree, the prattle of a child in a house, 
or else gazing at a drop of dew on a blade of grass, which 
the sun converted into a carbuncle. He lived very poorly, 
and drank more milk than wine ; a child made him give way, 
and his servant scolded him. He was timid to such an extent 
that he seemed stem, went out. rarely, and saw no one but 



238 


LES MISERABLES 


the poor, who tapped at his window, and his cure, Abb6 
MabcBuf, a good old man. Still, if the inhabitants of the 
town or strangers, curious to see his roses or tulips, came 
and tapped at his little door, he opened it with a smile. He 
was the brigand of the Loire. 

Any one who, at the same time, read military Memoirs 
and Biographies, the Monileur and the bulletins of the groat 
army, might have been struck by a name which pretty often 
turns up, that 6f George Pontmercy. Pontmercy fought at 
Spires, Worms, Neustadt, Turkheim, Alzey, and at Mayence, 
where he was one of the two hundred who forpied Houchard's 
rear-guard. He distinguished himself at Austerlitz in that 
admirable march in columns of companies performed under 
the enemy's fire ; and when the Russian Imperial Horse 
Guards destroyed one of the battalions of the 4th line In- 
fantry, Pontmercy was among those who took their revenge, 
and drove back tliese Guards. For this the Emperor gave 
him the Cross. Pontmercy saw in turn Wurmser made 
prisoner at Mantua, ]\lelas at Alessandria, and Mack at Ulm, 
and he belonged to the eighth corps of the grand army which 
Mortier commanded, and which took Hamburg. Then he 
joined the 55th regiment of the line, which was the old regi- 
ment of Flanders ; at Eylau, hc^Nj^as in the cemetery where 
the heroic Captain Louis Hugo, uncle of the author of tliis 
book, withstood, with his company of eighty-three men, for 
two hours, the whole effort of the enemy's army. Pontmercy 
was one of the three who left this cemetery alive. He was 
at Friedland ; then he saw Moscow, the Beresina, Lutzen, 
Bautzen, Dresden, Wacha, Leipsic, and the defiles of Geln- 
hausen; then at Montmereil, Chateau-Thierry, Craon, the 
banks of the Marne, the banks of the Aisne, and the formid- 
able position of Laon. At Arnay le Due, as captain, he 
sabred ten Cossacks, and saved, not his general, but his cor- 
poral ; he was cut to pieces on this occasion, and seven-and- 
twenty splinters were taken out of his left arm alone. Eight 
days before the capitulation of Paris he exchanged with a 
comrade and entered the cavalry ; for he had what was called 
under the old r6gime a ** double hand,” that is to say, an 
equal aptitude in handling, as private, a sabre or musket, as 
officer, a squadron or a company. From this aptitude, im- 
proved by military education, special arms sprang, for in- 



LES MISERABLES 


239 


stance, the dragoons, who are at once cavalry and infantry. 
He accompanied Napoleon to Elba, and at Waterloo was a. 
Major of cuirassiers in Dubois* brigade. It was he who took 
the colours of the Limburg battalion, and himself threw them 
at the Emperor's feet. He was covered with blood, for, on 
seizing the colours, he received a sabre cut across the face. 
The Emperor, who was pleased, cried out to him, “ You are 
a Colonel, a Baron, and officer of the Legion of Honour ! *' 
Pontmercy answered, — Sire, I thank you on behalf of my 
widow." An hour later he fell into the ravine of Chain. 
And now who was this George Pontmercy ? He was the 
same brigand of the Loire. 

We have already seen some portion of liis history. After 
Waterloo, Pontmercy, drawn as we remember out of the hol- 
low way of Chain, succeeded in rejoining the army, and 
dragged himself from ambulance to ambulance as far as the 
cantonments of the Loire. The Restoration put him on half 
pay, and then sent liim to Vernon, under honourable surveil- 
lance. King Louis XVIII., regarding all that was done in 
the Hundred Days as if it had not happened, recognized 
neither his quality as officer of the Legion of Honour, nor 
his commission as Colonel, nor his title as Baron. He for 
his part neglected no oppor^nity to sign himself, “ Colonel 
Baron de Pontmercy." He had only one old blue coat, and 
never went out without attaching to it the rosette olf the 
Legion of Honour. The King's attorney advised him that 
he would be tried for illegally wearing this decoration, and 
when this hint was given him by an officious intermediator, 
Pontmercy replied, with a bitter smile, " I do not know 
whether it is that I no longer understand French, or whether 
you are not speaking it, but the fact remains the same. I 
do not understand you." Then he went out for eight days 
in succession with his rosette, and the authorities did not 
venture to interfere with him. Twice or thrice the Minister 
of War, or the General commanding the department, wrote to 
him with the following superscription ; “ M. le Commandant 
Pontmercy," and he sent back the letters unopened. At the 
same moment Napoleon at St. Helena was treating in the 
same fashion the missives of Sir Hudson Lowe, addressed to 
" General Bonaparte." 

He had nothing but his scanty half-pay as Major, and he 



240 


LES MISEBABLES 


had taken the smallest house in Vernon, where he lived alone, 
in what way, we have just seen. Under the Empire, and be- 
tween two wars, he found time to marry Mademoiselle Gille- 
normand. The old bourgeois, who was indignant in his heart, 
concluded with a sigh and saying, “ The greatest families are 
forced into it.” In 1815, Madame Pontmercy,a most admir- 
able woman in every respect, and worthy of her .husband, 
died, leaving a child. This child would have been the 
Colonel’s deliglit in his solitude, but the grandfather im- 
periously claimed him, declaring that if he were not given up 
to him he would disinherit him. The father yielded for the 
sake of the little one, and, unable to love his son, he took to 
loving flowers. 

M. Gillenormand kept up no relations with his son-in- 
law ; the Colonel was to him a’** bandit,” and he was for the 
Colonel an “ ass.” It was expressly stipulated that Pont- 
mercy should never attempt to see his son or speak to him, 
under penalty of having him thrown on his hands disinherited. 
The Colonel perhaps did wrong in accepting these terms, but 
he endured them, in the belief that he was acting rightly, 
and only sacrificing himself. 

The inheritance of the grandfather was a small matter, 
but that of Mile Gillenormand the elder was considerable, 
for this aunt was very rich onTler mother's side, and her 
sister's son was her natural heir. The boy, who was called 
Marius, knew that he had a father, nothing more, and no one 
opened his lips to him on the subject. Still, in the society 
to which his grandfather took him, the whisperings and winks 
eventually produced light in the boy's mind, and he gradually 
came to think of his father* only with shame. 

While he was thus growing up in this way, the Colonel 
•very two or three months came furtively to Paris, like a 
convict who is breaking his ban, and posted himself at St. 
Sulpice, at the hour when Aunt Gillenormand took Marius 
to Mass. Trembling lest the aunt should turn round, con- 
cealed behind a pillar, motionless, and scarce daring to 
breathe, he looked at this boy — ^the scarred warrior was 
frightened at this old maid. 

From this very circumstance emanated his friendship with 
the Abb6 Maboeuf, Cure of Vernon. This worthy priest had 
a brother, churchwarden of St. Sulpice, who had several times 



LES MISERABLES 


241 


noticed this man contemplating his child, and the scar on 
his cheek, and the heavy tear in his eye. One day when hei 
went to Vernon to see his brother he met on the bridge Colonel 
Pontmercy, and recognized his man of St. Sulpice. The 
churchwarden told the affair to the Cure, and both made 
some excuse to pay a visit to the Colonel, from whom the 
Cure and the churchwarden learnt the whole story, and how 
Pontmercy sacrificed his own happiness to the future of his 
child. The result was that the Cure felt a veneration and 
tenderness for him, and the^ Colonel, on his side, took the 
Cure into his affection. 

Twice a year,* on January 1st, and St. George's day, Marius 
wrote his father letters dictated by his aunt, and the father 
sent very affectionate replies, which the grandfather thrust 
into his pocket without reading. 

Marius Pontmercy, like most children, received some sort 
of education. When he left the hands of Aunt Gillenormand, 
his grandfather intrusted him to a worthy professor of the 
finest classical innocence. This young mind, just expanding, 
passed from a prude to a pedant. Marius spent some years 
at college, and then joined the Law-school ; he was royalist, 
fanatic, and austere. He loved but little his grandfather, 
whose gaiety and cynicism raffled him, and he was gloomy as 
regarded his father. In other respects, he was an ardent yet 
cold, noble, generous, proud, religious, and exalted youth ; 
worthy almost to harshness, and fierce almost to savageness. 

The conclusion of Marius' classical studies coincided with 
M. Gillenormand 's retirement from society ; the old gentle- 
man bade farewell to the Faubourg St. Germain and Madame 
de T.'s drawing-room, and withdrew to his house in the 
Marais. His servants were, in addition to the porter, one 
Nicolette, who succeeded Magnon, and a wheezing, short- 
winded fellow whom he called Basque. In 1827 Marius 
attained his seventeenth year ; on coming home one evening 
he saw his grandfather holding a letter in his hand. 

“ Marius/' said M. Gillenormand, ** you will start to- 
morrow for Vernon." 

“ What for 1 ” Marius asked. 

To see your father," 

Marius trembled, for he had thought of everything except- 
ing this, that he might one day be obliged to see his father. 



242 


LES MISERABLES 


Nothing could be more unexpected, more disagreeable for 
him. Marius, in addition to his motives of political antipa- 
thy, was convinced that his father, the trooper, as M. Gille- 
normand called him in his good-tempered days, did not love 
him ; that was evident, as he had abandoned him thus, and 
left him to others. Not feeling himself beloved, he did not 
love. He was so stupefied that he did not question his grand- 
father, but M. Gillenormand continued, — 

“ It seems that he is ill, and asks for you. I believe there 
Is a coach which leaves at six o'clock, and gets to Vernon at 
nightfall. Go by it, for he says that the matter presses." 

Then he crumpled up the letter, and put it ‘into his pocket. 
Marius could have started the same night, and have been 
with his father the next morning ; a diligence at that time 
used to run at night to Rouen, passing through Vernon. 
But neitiier M. Gillenormand nor Marius dreamed of inquir- 
ing. On the evening of the following day Marius arrived 
at Vernon, and asked the first passer-by for the house of 
“ Monsieur Pontmercy." For in his mind he was of the 
same opinion as the Restoration, and did not recognize either 
his father's Barony or Colonelcy. The house was shown him ; 
he rang, and a woman holding a small hand-lamp opened the 
door for him. 

“ Monsieur Pontmercy 1 " MaSEtTs asked. 

The woman stood motionless. 

** Is this his house ? " Marius continued. 

The woman shook her head in the affirmative. 

“ Can I speak to him ? " 

The woman made a negative sign. 

“ Why, I am his son," Mariua added ; “ and he expects me.” 

“ He no longer expects you,” the woman said. 

Then he noticed that she was crying ; she pointed to the 
door of a parlour, and he went in. In this room, which was 
lighted by a tallow candle placed on the mantel-piece, there 
were three men, one standing, one on his knees, and one lying 
full length upon the floor in his shirt. The one on the floor 
was the Colonel ; the other two were a physician and a priest 
praying. The Colonel had been attacked by a brain fever 
three days before, and having a foreboding of evil, he wrote 
to M. Gillenormand, asking for his son. The illness grew 
worse, and on the evening of Marius' arrival at Vernon, the 



LES MISERABLES 


243 


Colonel had an attack of delirium. He leaped out of bed, in 
spite of the maid-servant, crying, My son does not arrive, I • 
will go to meet him." Then he left his bed-room, and fell on 
the floor of the ante-room ; — he had just expired. The phy- 
sician and the cure were sent for, but both arrived too late ; 
the son too had also arrived too late. By the twilight gleam 
of the caildle, a heavy tear, which had fallen from the Coloners 
dead eye, could be noticed on his pallid cheelc. The eye was 
lustreless, but the. tear had not dried up. This tear was his 
son's delay. • 

Marius gazed ,upon this man whom he saw for the first 
time and the last, upon this venerable and manly face, these 
open eyes which no longer saw, this white hair and the robust 
limbs upon w hich could be distinguished here and there browm 
lines, which were sabre cuts, and red stars, which were bullet 
holes. He gazed at the gigantic scar which imprinted heroism 
on this face, upon which God had imprinted gentleness. 
He thought that this man was his father, and that this man 
was dead, and he remained cold. Tlie sorrow he felt was 
such as he would have felt in the presence of any other man 
whom he might have seen lying dead before him. 

The Colonel left nothing, and the sale of the furniture 
scarce covered the funeral j*'«'penses. The maid-servant found 
a scrap of paper, which rhe handed to Marius. On it were 
the following lines, written by the Colonel : — 

" For my son. The Emperor made me a Baron on the 
field of Waterloo, and as the Restoration contests this title, 
which I.purchas^ with my blood, my son will assume it and 
wear it. Of course he will be worthy of it." On the back the 
Colonel had added, “ At this S&amp;me battle of Waterloo a ser- 
geant saved my life, his name is Thenardier, and I believe 
that he has recently kept a small inn in a village near Paris, 
either Chelles or Montfermeil. If my son meet this Th6nar- 
dier, he will do all he can for him." 

Not tlurough any affection for his father, but to 

that vague respect for death which is ever so imperious in 
the heart of man, Marius took this paper and put it away. 
Nothing was left of the Colonel. M. Gillenormand had his 
sword and uniform sold to the J ews ; the neighbours plun- 
dered the garden, and carried off the rare flowers, while the 
others became brambles and died. Marius only remained 



244 


LES MISERABLES 


forty-eight hours in Vernon. After the funeral he returned 
-to Paris and his legal studies, thinking no more of his father 
than if he had never existed. In two days the Colonel was 
buried, and in three forgotten. 

Marius had a crape on his hat, and that was all. 

Marius had retained the religious habits of his childhood. 
One Sunday, when he went to hear Mass at St. Sulpice, in the 
same Lady’s Chapel to which his aunt took him when a boy, 
being on that day more than usually absent and thoughtful, 
he placed himself behind a pillfir, and knelt, without paying 
attention to the fact, upon a Utreclit velvet chair, on the 
back of which was written, “ Monsieur ^fabanif. Church- 
warden.” The Mass had scarce begun when an old gentleman 
presented himself, and said to Marius, — 

“ This is my place, sir.” 

Marius at once stepped aside, and the old gentleman took 
his seat. When Mass was ended Marius stood pensively for a 
few moments, till the old gentleman came up to liim and said, — 
“ I ask your pardon, sir, for having disturbed you just 
now, and for troubling you afresh at this moment, but you 
must have considered me ill-bred, and so I wish to explain 
the matter to you.” 

“ It is unnecessary, sir,” saui^Tarius. 

No, it is not,” the old man continued, “ for I do not 
wish you to have a bad opinion of me. I am attached to this 
seat, and it seems to me that the Mass is better here, and I 
will tell you my reason. To this spot I saw during ten years, 
at regular intervals of two or three months, a poor worthy 
father come who had no otlier opportunity or way of seeing 
his son, because they were separated through family arrange- 
ments. He came at the hour when he knew that his son 
would be brought to Mass. The boy did not suspect that his 
father w^as here — perhaps did not know that he had a father. 
The latter kept beliind a pillar, so that he might not be seen, 
looked at his child and wept. This spot has become, so to 
speak, sanctified for me. I prefer it to the bench to which I 
should have a right as Churchwarden. I even knew the 
unfortunate gentleman slightly. He had a father-in-law, a 
rich aunt, and other relatives, who threatened to disinherit 
tbe boy if the father ever saw him, and he sacrificed himself 
that his son might one day be rich and happy. They were 



LES MISERABLES 


245 


separated through political opinions, and though I certainly 
approve of such opinions, there are persons who do not know . 
where to stop. Good gracious ! because a man was at Waterloo 
he is not a monster ; a father should not be separated from 
his child on that account. He was one of Bonaparte's colonels, 
and is dead, I believe. He lived at Vernon, where I have a 
brother who is cure, and his name was something like Pont- 
marie, Montperoy — he had, on my word, a splendid sabre cut.'' 

“ Pontmercy," Marius said, turning pale. , 

“ Precisely, Pofitmercy ; did you know him ? " 

He was my father, sir." * 

The old churchwarden clasped his hands and exclaimed, — 

“ Ah ! you are the boy ! Well, poor boy, you may say 
that you had a father who loved you dearly." 

Marius offered his arm to the old gentleman, and con- 
ducted him to his house. The next day he said to M. Gille- 
normand, — 

“ Some friends of mine have arranged a shooting party, 
will you allow me to go away for three days ? " 

“ Four," the grandfather answrered, “ go and amuse your- 
self; " and he whispered to his daughter with a wink, “ Some 
love affair ! " 

W’here Marius went we shall learn presently. He was 
away three days, then retilfSeS to Paris, went straight to the 
Library of the Law-school, and asked for a file of the Moniteur. 
He road it, he read all the histories of the Republic and the 
Empire. The first time he came across his father's name in 
a bulletin of the grand army he had a fever for a whole week. 
He called upon the generals under whom George Pontmercy 
had served ; among others. Count H — . The churchwarden, 
whom he saw again, told him of the life at Vernon, the Colonel’s 
retirement^ his flowers, and his solitude. Marius had at 
last a perfect knowledge of this rare, sublime, and gentle 
man, this species of lion-lamb — who liad been his father. 

While occupied with this study, which filled all his mo- 
ments as well as all his thoughts, he scarce ever saw the 
Gillenormands. He appeared at meals, but when sought for 
after them he could not be found. His aunt sulked, but old 
Gilleuormand smiled. “ Stuff, stuff, it is the right age.” At 
times the old man w'ould add, ** Confound it, I thought that 
it was an affair of gallantry, but it seems that it is a passion.” 



246 LES MISERABLES 

It was a passion in truth, for Marius was beginning to adore 
his father. 

At the same time an extraordinary change took place in his 
ideas. The history he had just read startled him, and the first 
effect was bedazzlement. He perceived, that up to this mo- 
ment he had no more understood his country tlian he did his 
father — that the Republic, the Empire, had been to him but 
words. He was full of regret and remorse, and he thought 
with des['«air that he could only tell to a tomb all that he had 
in his mind. Oh, if his father were alive, how he would have 
cried to him, ‘‘ Father, I have'the same heart as you ! I am 
your son ! ” Oh, why did this father die so soon, before justice 
had been done him, before he had known his son's love ? 

One night he was alone in his little garret, his candle was 
lighted, and he was reading at a table by the open window. 
All sorts of reveries reached him from the space, and were 
mingled with his thoughts. He was reading the bulletins of 
the grand army, those Homeric strophes written on the battle- 
field ; he was transported, trembling, and gas})ing ; and all 
alone, without knowing what was within him, he rose, stretched 
his arms out of the window, and shouted, Long live the 
Emperor ! " 

The points of his moral coj^ass were changed, and what 
had once been sunset was now^ffrise ; and all these revolu- 
tions took place in turns, without his family suspecting it. 
When, in this mysterious labour, he had entirely lost his old 
Bourbonic and ultra skin, when he had pulled off the aristo- 
crat, the Jacobite, and the Royalist, when he was a perfect 
Revolutionist, profoundly democratic, and almost republican, 
he went to an engraver's and^rdered one hundred cards, with 
the address Baron Marius Pontmercy." This was but the 
logical consequence of the change which had taken place in him, 
a change in which everything gravitated round his father. 
Still, as he knew nobody, and could not show his cards at any 
porter's lodge, he put them in his pocket. 

By another natural consequence, in proportion as he drew 
nearer to his father, his memory, and the things for which 
the Colonel had fought during five-and-twenty years, he drew 
away from his grandfather. M. Gillenormand's humour had 
not suited him for a long time past, and there already ex- 
isted between them all the dissonances produced by the con- 



LES MISERABLES 


247 


tact of a grave young man with a frivolous old man. So long 
as the same political opinions and ideas had been common to 
them, Marius met his grandfather upon them as on a bridge, 
but when the bridge fell there was a great gulf between them ; 
and then, before all else, Marius had indescribable attacks of re- 
volt when he reflected that it was M. Gillenormand who, 
through stupid motives, pitilessly tore him from the Colonel, 
thus depriving father of son, and son of father. Through his 
reverence for his father, Marius had almost grown into an aver- 
sion from his grandfather. , 

Nothing of this, however, was revealed in his demeanour ; 
he merely became colder than before, laconic at meals, and 
rarely at home. 

In one of his trips, which were always very short, he went 
to Montfermeil in order to obey his father's intimation, and 
sought for the ex-sergeant of Waterloo, Thcnardier, the land- 
lord. Th6nardier had failed, the public-house was shut up, 
and no one knew what had become of him. In making this 
search Marius remained away for four days. 

“ He is decidedly getting out of order," said the grandfather. 

They also fancied they could notice that ho wore under his 
shirt something fastened round his neck by a black ribbon. 

We have alluded to a langg^- he was a great-grand-nephew 
of M. Gillenormand's, on the father's side, who led a garrison 
life, far away from the domestic hearth. Lieutenant Theodule 
Gillenormand fulfilled all the conditions required for a man to 
be a pretty officer ; he had a young lady's waist, a victorious 
way of clanking his sabre, and turned-up moustaches. He 
came very rarely to Paris, so rarely that Marius had never 
s'^en him, and the two cousins only knew each other by name. 
Theodule was, we tlhnk we said, the favourite of Aunt Gille- 
normand, who preferred him because she never saw him ; for 
not seeing people allows of every possible perfection being atr- 
tributed to them. 

One morning Mile Gillenormand the elder returned to her 
apartments, as much affected as her general placidity would al- 
low. Marius had again asked his grandfather's permission to 
make a short trip, adding that he wished to start that same 
evening. Mile Gillenormand went up to her room greatly 
puzzled, and cast to the staircase this exclamation, “ It's too 
much ! " and this question, ** But where is it that he goes ? " 



248 


LES MISERABLES 


She caught a glimpse of some more or less illicit love adventure, 
and would not have felt vexed to have a closer peep at it 
through her spectacles. Scenting a mystery is like the first 
bite at a piece of scandal, and holy souls do not detest it. In 
order to distract tliis curiosity, which agitated her a little 
beyond her wont, she began festooning with cotton upon 
cotton one of those embroideries of the Empire and the Restor- 
ation, in which there are a great many cabriolet wheels. 
She had been sitting over it for some hours when the door 
opened. Mile Gillenormand raided her nose) and saw Lieute- 
nant Theodule before her, making his regulation salute. She 
uttered a cry of delight ; for a woman may be old, a prude, 
devout, and an aunt, but she is always glad to see a lancer en- 
ter her room. 

“You here, Theodule ! ” she exclaimed. 

“ In passing, my dear aunt.” 

“ You will stop the week out ? ” 

“ My dear aunt, I am off again to-night.” 

“ Stay, my little Theodule, I beg of you.” 

“ The heart says Yes, duty says No. We are changing 
garrison ; we are sent to Gaillon. We were obliged to pass 
through Paris, and I said to myself, ‘ I will go and see my 
aunt.' ” ^ 

“ And here's for your trouble.'^ 

And she slipped ten louis into his hand. 

Theodule kissed her, and she had the pleasure of having her 
neck slightly grazed by his gold-laced collar. 

“ By the way, it appears that my cousin Marius Pontmercy 
is going on a journey too ? ” 

“ How do you know that ? ” the aunt said, her curiosity 
being greatly tickled. 

“ On reaching Paris I went to the coach-office to take my 
place in the coupe. A traveller had already taken a seat in 
the Imperial e, and I saw hia name in the way-bill : it was 
Marius Pontmercy.” 

Oh, the scamp,” the aunt exclaimed. “ Ah ! your cousin 
is not a steady lad like you. To think that he is going to pass 
the night in a diligence ! ” 

Here an event occurred to Mademoiselle Gillenormand the 
elder : she had an idea. If she had been a man, she would 
have struck her forehead. She addressed Theodule* 



LES MISERABLES 


249 


“ You are aware that your cousia does not know you ? 

“ I have seen him, but he never deigned to notice me/* 

** Listen, Tlieodule ; Marius absents himself from the house.” 

Theodule replied with the calmness of a bronze man, “ Some 
petticoat ! ” 

“ That is evident ! ” the aunt exclaimed. “ We should like 
to know the meaning of all tins — to find out where he goes. 
Do us a pleasure by following Marius a little. As he does 
not know you, that will be an easy matter. Since there is a girl 
in the case, try to* get a look %t her, and write and tell us all 
about it, for it will amuse your grandfather.” 

Theodule had fio excessive inclination for this sort of watch- 
ing, but he was greatly afiected by the ten louis, and he be- 
lieved he could see a possible continuation of such gifts. Ho 
accepted the commission and said, “ As you please, aunt,” and 
added in an aside, “ I am a Duenna now ! ” 

Marius, on the evening that followed this dialogue, got into 
the diligence, not suspecting that he was watched. As for the 
watcher, the first thing he did was to fall asleep, and his sleep 
was complete and conscientious. Argus snored the whole 
night. At day-break the guard shouted, “ Vernon ; passengers 
for Vernon, get out here ! ” and Lieutenant Theodule got out, 

“ All right,” he growled, sj^half asleep, “ I get out here.” 

Then his memory growing" gradually clearer, he thought of 
his aunt, the ten louis, and the account he had promised to 
render of Marius^ Ba)dng8 and doings. This made him laugh. 

At this moment the leg of a black trouser appeared against 
the window-pane of the coufe, — ^it was Marius. A little 
peasant girl was offering flowers to the passengers, and erpng 

Bouquets for your ladies.” Marius went up to her, and 
bought the finest flowers in her basket. 

“ By Jove,” said Theodule, as he leaped out of the cowp^, 
“ the affair is growing piquant, she must be a deucedly pretty 
woman to deserve so handsome a bouquet. 1 must have a 
look at her.” 

And then he began following Marius, no longer by order, 
but through personal curiosity. Marius paid no attention to 
Theodule. Some elegant women were getting out of the dili- 
gence, but he did not look at them ; he seemed to see nothing 
around him. 

“ He must be preciously in love/^ Theodule thought. Marius 



250 


LES MISEBABLES 


proceeded toward the church. He did not go in, but dis- 
appeared behind one of the buttresses of the apse. 

** The meeting outside,” Theodule said ; “ now for a look si 
the girl.” 

And he walked on tip-toe up to the comer which Marius 
had gone round, and on reaching it stopped in stupefaction. 
Marius, with his forehead in both his hands, was kneeling in 
the grass upon a tomb, and had spread his flowers out over it. 
At the head of .the grave was a cross of black wood, with this 
name in white letters, — Colonel Baron Pontiuercy.” 
Marius could be heard sobbing. Theodule fell back in dis- 
may — the girl was a tomb ! 

Marius returned from Vernon very early on the morning of 
the third day, and wearied by two nights spent in a diligence, 
and feeling the necessity of repairing his want of sleep by an 
hour at the swimming-school, he hurried up to his room, only 
took the time to take off his travelling coat and the black rib- 
bon which he had round his neck, and went to the bath. M. 
6illcnormand,?who rose at an early hour like all old men who 
are in good health, heard him come in, and hastened as quick 
as his old legs would carry him up the stairs leading to Marius* 
garret, in order to welcome him back, and try and discover 
his movements. When Fatly^ Gillenormand entered the 
garret Marius was no longer there. The bed had been unoccu- 
pied, and on it lay the coat and black ribbon unsuspectingly. 

“ I prefer that,” said M. Gillenormand, and a moment later 
he entered the drawing-room, where Mile Gillenormand the 
elder was already seated embroidering her cabriolet wheels. 
The entrance was triumphant, M. Gillenormand held in one 
hand the coat, in the other the neck-ribbon, and shouted, — 

“ Victory ! we are going to penetrate the mystery. Here 
is the romance itself, for I have the portrait.” 

In fact, a box of shagreen leather, much like a miniature, was 
suspended from the ribbon. The old man took hold of this 
box, and looked at it or some time without opening. 

” Let us look, father,** the old maid said. 

The box opened by pressing a spring, but they only found 
in it a carefully folded-up paper. 

They unfolded it and read as follows, — 

“ For my son. The Emperor made me a Baron on the field 
of Waterloo, and as the Restoration contests this title which 



LES MISEBABLE3 251 

I purchased with my blood, my son will assume it and wear it j 
of course he will be worthy of it.” 

What the father and daughter felt, it is not possible to de- 
scribe ; but they were chilled as if by the breath of a death's 
head. They did not exchange a syllable. M. Gillenormaud 
merely said in a low voice, and as if speaking to himself, “ It 
is that trooper’s hand-writing." 

At the same instant, a small square packet, wrapped up in 
blue paper, fell from a pocket of the great-coat. Mile Gille- 
normand picked it up and opcngd the blue paper. It contained 
Marius's one hundred cards, and she passed one to M. Gille- 
normand, who read, " Baron Marius Pontmercy.” The old 
man rang, and Nicolette came in. M. Gillenormand took the 
ribbon, the box, and tlie coat, threw them on the ground in the 
middle of the room, and said, — 

“ Remove that rubbish." 

A long hour passed in the deepest silence ; the old man and 
the old maid were sitting back to back and thinking, probably 
both of the same things. At the end of this hour. Mile Gille- 
normand said, — Very pretty ! " A few minutes after, Marius 
came in ; even before he crossed the threshold he perceived his 
grandfather holding one of his cards in his hand. On seeing 
Marius he exclaimed, with ^ air of bourgeois superiority, 
which had something crushing about it, — 

" Stay ! You are a Baron at present ; I must congratulate 
you. What does this mean I " 

Marius blushed slightly, and answered, — 

“ It means that I am my father's son." 

M. Gillenormand left ofE laughing, and said harshly,—" I 
am your father." • 

" My father," Marius continued with downcast eyes and a 
stem air, "was an humble and heroic man, who gloriously served 
the Republic of France, died in forgetfulness and abandonment, 
and who had never committed but one fault, that of loving too 
dearly two ungrateful beings — ^his country and myself." 

This was more than M. Gillenormand could bear. 

" Marius," he shouted, " I know not who your father was, 
and do not wish to know. You must know that you are as 
much a Baron as my slipper is ! They were all bandits who 
served Robespierre ! they were all brigands who served B-u-o- 
napartt ! all traitors who betrayed their legitimate king ! all 



252 


LES MISEBABLES 


cowards who ran away from the Prussians and the English at 
W aterloo. That is what I know. If your father was among 
them, I am ignorant of the fact, and am sorry for it. 1 am 
your humble servant ! ” 

Marius trembled all over, he knew not what to do, and his 
head was a-glow. It was impossible that such things could bo 
said with impunity in his presence, but what was he to do ? 
His father had just been trampled under foot, and insulted in 
his presence, but by whom ? By liis grandfather. How was he 
to avenge the one without outraging the other ? On one side 
was a sacred tomb, on the other was white hair. He tottered 
for a few moments like a drunken man, then raised his eyes, 
looked fixedly at his grandfather, and shouted in a thundering 
voice, 

“ Down with the Bourbons, and that great pig of a Louis 
XVIII. ! 

Louis XVIII. had been dead four years, but that made no 
difference to him. The old man, who had been scarlet, sudden- 
ly became whiter than his hair. He turned to a bust of the Due 
de Berry which was on the mantel-piece, and bowed to it pro- 
foundly wdth a sort of singular majesty. Then he walked twice, 
slowly and silently, from the mantel-piece to the window, cross- 
ing the whole room, and makiijg^the boards creak as if he were 
a walking marble statue. The second time he leant over his 
daughter, and said to her with a smile which was almost calm, — 

“ A Baron like this gentleman, and a bourgeois like my- 
self, can no longer remain beneath the same roof,'' 

And suddenly drawing himself up, livid, trembling, and ter- 
rible, with his forehead dilated by tlie fearful radiance of pas- 
sion, he stretched out his aran toward Marius, and shouted, 
“ Begone ! " 

Marius left the house, and on the morrow M. Gilicnormand 
said to his daughter, — 

You will send every six months sixty pistoles to that blood- 
drinker, and never mention his name to me." 

Marius, on his side, left the house indignant, and a circum- 
stance aggravated his exasperation. In hurriedly conveying, 
by the grandfather's order, Marius's rubbish to his bed-room, 
Nicolettc, without noticing the fact, let fall, probably on the 
attic stairs, which were dark, the black shagreen case in which 
was the paper written by the Colonel. Aa neither could be 



LES MISERABLES 


253 


founds Marius felt convinced that ** Monsieur Gillenormand '' — 
he never called him otherwise from that date— rhad thrown “his 
father's will " into the fire. He knew by heart the few lines 
written by the Colonel, but the paper, the writing, this sacred 
relic, — ^all this was liis heart. What had been done with it 1 

Marius went away without saying where he was going, and 
without knowing, with thirty francs, liis watch, and some 
clothes in a carpet-bag. He jumped into a cabriolet, engaged 
it by the hour, and proceeded at all risks towards the Pays 
Latin. What would become ol Marius ? 

CIUPTER XII 

At this epoch, when a certain revolutionary quivering was 
vaguely felt, there was at Paris a society called the friends of 
the xl. B. C., whose ostensible object was the education of chil- 
dren, but the real one the elevation of men. They assembled 
at two places ; at a cabaret called Corinthe near the Halles, and 
near the Pantheon, in a small cafe on the Place St. Michel, 
known as the Cafe Musain, and now demolished : the first of 
these meeting-places was contiguous to the workmen, and the 
second to the students. 

Most of the friends of the Jt. B. C. were students, who 
maintained a cordial understanding with a few workmen. 
Here are the names of the principal members, which belong in 
a certain measure to history, — ^Enjolras, Combeferre, Jean 
Prouvaire, Feuilly, Courfeyrac, Bahorel, Laigle de Meaux, Joly» 
and Grantaire. These young men formed a species of family 
through their friendship, and all came from the South, except- 
ing Laigle. They all had the sanft religion, — Process. They 
were all the direct sons of the French Revolution, and the 
lightest among them became serious when pronouncing the date 
of '89. Their fathers in the flesh were, or had been, feuille- 
tants, royalists, or doctrinaires, but that was of little conse- 
quence ; this pell-mell, anterior to themselves, who were young, 
did not concern them, and the pure blood of principles flow^ 
in their veins ; they attached themselves, without any inter- 
mediate tinge, to incorruptible right and absolute duty. 

On a certain afternoon, which, as we shall see, has some 
coincidence with the events recorded above, Laigle de Meaux 
was sensually leaning against the door-post of the Cafe Musain. 



254 


LES MISERABLES 


Laigle, whose eyes were absently wandering, saw through 
this somnambulism a two-wheeled vehicle moving across the 
Place St. Michel at a foot-pace and apparently undecided. He 
looked at it, and saw inside a young man seated by the side of 
the driver, and in front of the man a carpet-bag. The bag dis- 
played to passers-by tliis name, written in large black letters 
on the card sewn to the cloth, Marius Pontmercy. This 
name made Laigle change his attitude : he drew himself up, 
and shouted to the young man in the cab, “ M. Marius Pont- 
mercy.'" 

The cab stopped, on being thus liailed, and the young man, 
who also appeared to be thinking deeply, raised his eyes. 

‘‘ Hilloh ! "" he said,— 

“ Are you M. Pontmercy ? ^ 

“ Yes."" 

“ I was looking for you,"" Laigle of Meaux continued. “ You 
were not at lecture the day before yesterday I 

“ Very possibly." 

‘ It is certain."" 

“ Are you a student ? "" Marius asked. 

“ Yes, sir, like yourself. The day before yesterday I entered 
the Law-school by chance ; as you know, a man has an idea 
like that sometimes. The Professor was engaged in calling 
over, and you are aware how ridiculously strict they are in the 
school at the present moment. Upon the third call remaining 
unanswered, your name is erased from the list, and sixty francs 
are gone. It was Blondeau who was calling over. You know 
Biondeau scents the absent with delight. He craftily began 
with the letter P, and I did not listen, because I was not com- 
promised by that letter. Tfie roll-call went on capitally, there 
was no erasure, and Blondeau was sad. All at once he calls 
out, ‘ Marius Pontmercy." No one answered, and so Blondeau, 
full of hope, repeats in a louder voice, * Marius Pontmercy," and 
takes up his pen. I have bowels, sir, and said to myself hur- 
riedly, ‘ The name of a good fellow is going to be erased. At- 
tention ! he is not a proper student, a reading man, a pedantic 
sap strong in science, literature, theology, and philosophy. No, 
he is an honourable idler, who lounges about, cultivates the 
grisette, pays his court to the ladies, and is perhaps with my 
mistress at this moment. I must save him : death to Blon- 
deau ! ' At this moment Blondeau dipped his pen into the 



LES MISEBABLES 


255 


ink, looked round his audience, and repeated for the third time, 
* Marius Pontmercy ! * I answered, ‘ Here ; ' and so your name 
was not erased." 

“ Sir ! " Marius exclaimed. 

“ And mine was," Laigle of Meaux added. 

** I do not understand you," said Marius. 

** And yet it was very simple. I was near the desk to 
answer, and near the door to bolt. The Professor looked at 
me with a certain fixedness, and suddenly Blondeau, who must 
be the crafty nose to which Baileau refers, leaps to the letter 
L, which is my letter, for I come from Meaux, and my name 
is Laigle." 

“ L'Aigle ! " Marius interrupted, " what a glorious name.^^ 

“ Blondeau arrives, sir, at that glorious name, and exclaims 
‘ L'Aigle ! * " I answer, ‘ Here ! ' Then Blondeau looks at 
me with the gentleness of a tiger, smiles, and says, — If you are 
Pontmercy you are not Laigle/ a phrase which appears ofien- 
sive to you, but which was only lugubrious for me. After 
saying this, he erased me.” 

Marius exclaimed, — 

“ I am really mortified, sir, — 

Young man," said Laigle, ** let this serve you as a lesson ; 
in future be punctual." ^ 

** I ofier you a thousand apologies. " 

** And do not run the risk of getting your neighbour erased.'^ 

“ I am in despair — " 

Laigle burst into a laugh. 

“ And ^ am enchanted. I was on the downward road to be- 
come a lawyer, and this erasure saves me. I renounce the tri- 
umphs of the bar, I will not deftnd the orphan or attack the 
widow. I have obtained my expulsion, and I am indebted to 
you for it, M. Pontmercy. I intend to pay you a solemn visit 
of thanks, — ^where do you live ? 

" In this cab," said Marius. 

** A sign of opulence," Laigle remarked calmly ; “ I con- 
gratulate you, for you have apartments at nine thousand francs 
a year." 

At this moment Courfeyrac came out of the caf^. Marius 
imiled sadly. 

I have been in this lodging for two hours, and am eager 
to leave it, but I do not know where to go." 



256 


LES MISERABLES 


“ Come home with me," Courfeyrac said to him. 

" I ought to have the priority," Laigle observed, " but 
then I have no home." 

" Hold your tongue, Bossuet," Courfeyrac remarked. 

" Bossuet ! " said Marius, " why, you told me your name was 
Laigle." 

" Of Meaux," Laigle answered, " metaphorically, ‘Bossuet." 

Courfeyrac got into the cab. 

" Hotel de la Porte St. Jacques, driver,” he said. 

The same evening, Marius 'vas installed in a room in this 
house, next door to Courfeyrac. 

In a few days Marius was a friend of Courfeyrac, for youth 
is the season of prompt weldings and rapid cicatrisations. 
]\rarius by the side of Courfeyrac breathed freely, a great 
novelty for him. Courfeyrac asked him no questions, and did 
not even tliink of doing so, for at that age faces tell everything 
at once, and words are unnecessary. There are some young 
men of whose countenance you may say that they gossip, — ^you 
look at them and know them. One morning, however, Cour- 
ff^yrac suddenly asked him the question, — 

“ By the way, have you any political opinion ? " 

" Of course ! " said Marius, almost offended by the question. 

" What are you ? " ^ 

" Bonapartist — democrat." 

" The grey colour of the reassured mouse," Courfeyrac 
remarked. 

On the next day he led Marius to the Cafe Musain, and 
whispered in his ear with a smile, “ I must introduce you to 
the Revolution," and he led him to the room of the Friends of 
the A. B. C. He introduced him to his companions, saying in a 
low voice, " a pupil," which Marius did not at all comprehend. 
Marius had fallen into a mental wasps’ nest, but though he 
was silent and grave, he was not the less winged and armed. 

The collision of young minds has this admirable thing about 
it, that the spark can never be foreseen or the lightning divined. 
What will shoot forth presently ? no one knows. The burst of 
laughter is heard, and at the next moment seriousness makes 
its entrance. A stern thought, which strangely issued from a 
clash of words, suddenly flashed through the medley in which 
Grantaire, Bahorel, Prouvaiie, Bossuet, Combeferre, and Cour- 
feyrac were blindly slashing and pointing. How is it that a 



LES MISBBABLES 


267 


phrase suddenly springs up in conversation, and underlines it- 
self at once in the attention of those who trace it ? As we have 
just said, no one knows. In the midst of the general conversa- 
tion Bossuet concluded some remark he made to Combeferre 
with the date, “ June 18, 1815, Waterloo.*' 

At this name of Waterloo, Marius, who had been leaning 
over a glass of water, removed his hand from under his chin 
and began looking intently at the company. 

“ Pardieu ! " Courfeyrac exclaimed (Parbleu ^t this period 
was beginning to 'grow out of fashion). “ That number 
eighteen is strange, and strikes me, for it is Bonaparte's fatal 
number. Place Lbuis before, and Brumaire behind, and you 
have the man's whole destiny, with this expressive peculiarity, 
that the beginning has its heel gybed by the end." 

Enjolras, who had hitherto been dumb, now broke the. 
silence, and said, — 

“ Courfeyrac, you mean that the crime is urged by the 
expiation." 

This word crime exceeded the measure which Marius, who 
was already greatly affected by this sudden reference to Water- 
loo, could accept. He rose, walked slowly to the map of 
France hanging on the wall, on the bottom of which could be 
seen an island in a separate compartment; he placed his 
finger on this and said, — 

“ Corsica, a small island, which made France very great." 

This was the breath of frozen air ; all broke off, for they felt 
that something was about to begin. Bahorel, who had been en- 
gaged in an argument with Bossuet, gave it up in order to listen; 
and Enjolras, whose blue eye was fixed on no one, and seemed 
to be examining space, answered ^thout looking at Marius, — 

" Prance requires no Corsica to be great. Ranee is great 
because she is France, quia nominor ho/* 

Marius felt no desire to give way ; he turned to Enjolras, 
and his voice had a strange vibration, produced by his internal 
emotion. 

" Heaven forbid that I should diminish France ; but it is 
not diminishing her to amalgamate Napoleon with her. Come, 
let us talk, I am a new-comer among you, but I confess that 
you astonish me. Where are we ? who are we ? who are you ? 
who am I ? Let us come to an understanding about the 
Emperor. I hear you call him Buonaparte, laying a stress 

I 



268 


LES MISEBABLES 


on the Uy like the Boyalists, but I must tell you that my grand- 
father does better still, for he says, * Buonaparte/ I fancied 
you young men, but where do you keep your enthusiasm, and 
what do you do with it ? If you will not have that great man, 
what great man would you have ? He had everything, he 
was complete, and in his brain was the cube of human facilities. 
He made codes like Justinian, and dictated like Caesar ; his 
conversation blended the lightning of Pascal with the thunder 
of Tacitus ; he. made history and wrote it, and his bulletins are 
Iliads ; he combined the figures of Newton with the metaphor of 
Mahomet. He left behind him in the East words great as the 
Pyramids, at Tilsit he taught majesty to Emperors, at the 
Academy of Sciences he answered Laplace, at the Council of 
State he held his own against ‘Merlin, he gave a soul to the 
geometry of one and to the sophistry of others, for ho was a legist 
with the lawyers, a sidereal with the astronomers. Like 
Cromwell, blowing out one of two candles, he went to the 
Temple to bargain for a curtain tassel ; he saw everything, 
knew everything, but that did not prevent him from laughing 
heartily by the cradle of his new-born son. And, all at once, 
startled Europe listened, armies set out, parks of artillery rolled 
along, bridges of boats were thrown over rivers, clouds of 
cavalry galloped in the hurricane, and shouts, bugles, and the 
crashing of thrones could be heard all around. The frontiers 
of kingdoms oscillated on the map, the sound of a superhuman 
sword being drawn from its scabbard could be heard, and 
he was seen, standing erect on the horizon, with a gleam in 
his hand and a splendour in his eyes, opening in the thunder 
his two wings, the grand army and the old Guard. ^ He was 
the archangel of war.^' * 

All were silent, and Enjolras hung his head. Silence always 
produces to some extent the efiect of acquiescence. Marius, 
almost without drawing breath, continued with increased 
enthusiasm, — 

“ Let us be just, my friends ! What a splendid destiny it 
is for a people to be the empire of such an Emperor, when that 
people is France, and adds its genius to the genius of that man ! 
To appear and reign ; to march and triumph ; to have as 
bivouacs every capital ; to select grenadiers and make kings 
of them ; to decree the downfall of dynasties ; to transfigure 
Europe at double quick step ; to follow in one man Hannibal, 



LES MISERABLES 


259 


Ceesar, and Charlemagne ; to be the people of a ruler who 
accompanies your every day-break with the brilliant announce- 
ment of a battle gained ; to be aroused in the morning by the 
guns of the Invalides ; to be the great nation, and give birth 
to the great army ; to sound a Titanic flourish of trumpets 
through history ; to conquer the world twice, by conquest 
and by aluazement — all this is sublime, and what is there 
greater ? ** 

“ To be free,” said Combeferre. 

Marius in his turn hung hia head. This simple and cold 
remark had traversed his epical effusion like a steel blade, 
and he felt it fainting away within him. When he raised his 
eyes, Combeferre was no longer present ; prcjbably satisfied 
witii his reply to the apotheosis, he had left the room, and all, 
excepting Enjolras, had followed him. Enjolras, alone with 
Marius, was looking at him gravely. Marius, however, having 
slightly collected his ideas, did not confess himself defeated, and 
he was in all probability about to begin afresh upon Enjolras, 
when he suddenly heard some one singing on the staircase. 
It was Combeferre, and this is what he sung. 

“ Si Ci^siir m’avait doxin^ 

La gloire et la guerre, 

Fit qu’il mo falluj^quitter 
L’ amour do ma more, 

Jedirais au grand Cesar; 

Reprends ton sceptre et ton char, 

J*aime mieux ma mdre, 6 gue 1 
J'aime mieux ma m^re I ” 

The tepder and solemn accent with which Combeferre sang 
this couplet imparted to it a species of strange grandeur. 
Marius, with his eye pensively fixed on the ceiling, repeated 
almost mechanically “ my mother ? ” 

At this moment he felt Enjolras* hand on his shoulder. 

Citizen,** he said to him, ‘‘ my mother is the Republic.” 

This evening left a sad obscurity and a profound shock in 
the mind of Marius, and he felt what the earth probably feels 
when it is opened by the plough-share, that the grain may be 
deposited ; it only feels the wound, and the joy of giving birth 
does not arrive till later. 

Marius was gloomy ; he had only just made himself a faith, 
and must he reject it again ? He declared to himself that he 
would not : he resolved not to doubt, and began doubting in- 



260 


LES MISERABLES 


voluntarily. To bcand between two religions, one of which you 
have not yet lost, and the other which you have not yet enter- 
ed, is unendurable, and twilight only pleases bat-like souls. 
Marius had an open eye-ball, and wanted true light ; and the 
semi-lustre of doubt hurt him. Whatever might be his desire 
to remain where he was and cling to it, he was invincibly con- 
strained to continue, to advance, to think, to go further. 
Whither would this lead him ? He feared lest, after taking so 
many steps which had drawn him near his father, he was now 
going to take steps which woi’ld carry him away from him. 
His discomfort increased with all the refleciipns that occurred 
to him, and an escarpment became formed around him. He 
agreed neither with his grandfather nor his friends ; he was 
daring for the one and behindhand for the others ; and he 
found himself doubly isolated, on the side of old age and on the 
side of youth. He did not go again to the Cafe Musain. 

In the troubled state of. his conscience he did not think at 
all of certain serious sides of existence, but the realities of life 
will not allow themselves to be forgotten, and so they suddenly 
came to jog his memory. One morning the landlord came into 
Marius's room, and said to him, — 

** Monsieur Courfevrac recommended you ? ** 

Yes." 

" But I want my money.” 

Ask Courfeyrac to come and speak to me,'* said Marius. 

When Courfeyrac arrived the landlord left them, and Marius 
told his friend what he had not dreamed of telling him yet, — 
that he was, so to speak, alone in the world, and had no 
relations. 

“ What will become of ydu 1 ** said Courfeyrac* 

“ I do not know,” Marius answered. 

” Have you any money ? ” 

“ Fifteen francs.” 

“ Are you willing to borrow from me ? *^ 

” Never.” 

” Have you clothes or jewelry ! " 

” There they are.” 

” 1 know a second-hand clothesman who will take your 
overcoat and a pair of trousers, and also a jeweller who will buy 
your watch.” 

« AU right.*' 



LES HISEBABLES 


261 


** No, it is not all right ; what will you do after t ^Do 
you know English or German I " 

“ No." 

" All the worse." 

" Why so ? ” 

" Because a friend of mine, a publisher, is preparing a sort 
of Encyclopedia, for which you could have translated English 
or German articles. The pay is bad, but it is possible to live 
on it." 

" I will learn English and German," 

" And in the meanwhile 1 ^ 

" I will eat nly clothes and my watch." 

The clothes-dealer was sent for, and gave twenty francs for 
the coat and trousers ; next they went to the jeweller's, who 
bought the watch for forty-five francs. 

" That's not so bad," said Marius to Courfeyrac, on return- 
ing to the hotel ; " with my fifteen francs that makes eighty.” 

" And your bill here i " Courfeyrac observed. 

“ Oh, I forgot that," said Marius. 

The landlord presented his bill, which Marius was bound to 
pay at once ; it amounted to seventy francs. 

" I have ten francs left," said Marius. 

“ The deuce," Courfeyrac relied ; “ you will spend five 
francs while learning English, and five while learning German. 
That will bo swallowing a language very quickly, or a five- 
franc piece very slowly." 

Aunt Gillenormand, who was not a bad-hearted woman in 
sad circumstances, discovered her nephew's abode ; and one 
morning, when Marius returned from college, he found a letter 
from his aunt and the " sixty pistoles," that is to say, six hun* 
dred francs in gold, in a sealed-up box. Marius sent the thirty 
louis back to his aunt with a respectful note, in which he stated 
that he would be able in future to take care of himself — at that 
moment he had just three francs left. The aunt did not tell 
grand-papa of this refusal, through fear of raising his exaspera- 
tion to the highest pitch ; besides, had he not said, " Never 
mention that blood-drinker's name in my presence." Marius 
quitted the Hotel of the Porte St* Jacques, as he did not wish 
to run into debt, and found lodgings at No. 60-62. 

Life became severe for Marius. At the age when youth 
swells the heart with an knperial pride, he looked down more 



LES MISEBABLES 


than once at hia worn-out boots, and knew the unjust shame 
and burning blushes of wretchedness. It is an admirable and 
terrible trial, from which the weak come forth infamous and the 
strong sublime. It is the crucible into which destiny throws 
a man whenever it wishes to have a scoundrel or a demi-god. 

There was a time in Marius's life when he swept his own 
landing, when he bought a halfpenny-worth of Bria cheese of 
the fruiterer, when he waited till night-fall to go into the 
baker's and buy a loaf, which he carried stealthily to his gar- 
ret as if he had stolen it. At times there might have been 
seen slipping into the butcher's shop at the corner, among the 
gossiping cooks who elbowed him, a young at^kward man with 
books under his arm, who had a timid and furious air, who on 
entering removed his hat from'his dripping forehead, made a 
deep bow to tlie astonished butcher’s wife, another to the fore- 
man, asked for a mutton chop, paid threeor four pence, wrapped 
the chop in paper, placed it between two books under his arm, 
and went away. It was Marius, and on this chop, which he 
cooked himself, he lived for three days. Several times did 
Aunt Gillenormand make tentatives and send him the sixty 
pistoles, but Marius always returned them, saying that he 
wanted for nothing. 

He was still in mournings for his father when the revolu- 
tion we have described took place within him, and since then 
he had not left ofi black clothes, but the clothes left him. A 
day arrived when he had no coat, though his trousers would 
still pass muster. Courfeyrac, to whom he on his side render- 
ed several services, gave him an old coat. For thirty sous 
Marius had it turned by some porter, and it became a new coat. 
But it was green, and Marius henceforth did not go out till 
nightfall, which caused his coat to appear black. As he still 
wished to be in mourning, he wrapped himself in the night. 

Through all this he contrived to pass his examination. He 
was still supposed to inhabit Courfeyrac's rooms, which were 
decent, and where a certain number of legal tomes, supported 
by broken-backed volumes of novels, represented the library 
prescribed by the regulations. He had his letters addressed to 
Courfeyrac's lodgings. When Marius was called to the bar he 
informed his grandfather of the fact in a cold letter, which, 
however, was full of submission and respect. M. Gillenormand 
took the letter with a trembling hand, read it, tore it in four 



LES MISEBABLES 


263 


[ )arts, and threw them into the basket. Two or three days 
ater, Mile Gillenormand heard her father, who was alone in his 
room, talking aloud, which always happened when he was agi- 
tated. She listened and heard the old gentleman say, “ If 
you were not an ass, you would know that you cannot be at 
the same time a Baron and a lawyer.” 

Marius •occupied at No. 50-52, for the annual rent of thirty 
francs, a garret without a fire-place, which was called a “ cab- 
inet,” and only contained the indispenvsable articles of fur- 
niture, For four hundred aqd fifty francs he was boarded, 
lodged, and served. His clothes cost him a hundred francs, 
his linen fifty, his washing fifty, but the whole did not exceed 
six hundred and fifty francs. He had fifty left, and was rich : 
at times he would lend ten francs to a friend, and Courfeyrac 
once actually borrowed sixty francs of him. 

It had taken Marius years to reach this flourishing con- 
dition, years in which he underwent great struggles, but he 
had not failed to himself a single day. He gave himself the 
credit of never having owed a farthing to any one, for to him 
debt was the beginning of slavery. Sooner than borrow he 
did not eat, and he had known many days of fasting. Know- 
ing that unless a man is careful, reduction of fortune may 
lead to baseness of soul, he jealously watched over his pride. 
In all his trials he felt encouraged by a secret force within 
him ; for the soul helps the body, and at times raises it, and 
is the only bird that upholds its cage. 

By the side of his father's name, another name was en- 
graved on Marius's heart, that of Thenardier. He never 
separated the memory of this man from that of his father, 
and he associated them in his vtineration. Marius had learnt 
at Montfermeil the ruin and bankruptcy of the unfortunate 
landlord, and since then had made extraordinary efforts to 
find his trail, and try to reach him in the frightful abyss of 
misery through which Thenardier had disappeared. Marius 
went everywhere. No one was able to give him the slightest 
information of Thenardier. His creditors had sought him 
too, with less love, but quite as much perseverance, and had 
been unable to lay hands on him. Marius accused and felt 
angry with himself for not succeeding in his search. He 
would have given one of his arms to find Thenardier, and his 
last drop of blood to save him from want ; and his sweetest 



264 


LES MISEBABLES 


and most magnificent dream was to see Th4nardier, do him 
some service, and say to him , — ** You do not know me, but I 
know you : I am here, dispose of me as you please/’ 

At this period Marius was twenty years of age, and he 
had left his grandfather's house for three. He foolishly im- 
agined that M. Gillenormand had never loved him, but in 
this Marius was mistaken. In his heart M. Gillenormand 
idolized Marius, and when the lad had disappeared he felt a 
black gap in his heart ; he insisted upon his name not being 
mentioned, but regretted that he was so strictly obeyed. Ifo 
had his hours of depression, for he missed Marius, and old 
men require afiection as much as they do the sun to warm 
them. He lived in greater retirement than ever at the Mar- 
ais ; he was still gay and violent as of yore, but his gaiety 
had a convulsive harshness, as if it contained grief and pas- 
sion, and his violence generally terminated with a sort of 
gentle and sombre depression. He would say to himself at 
times , — ** Oh, if he were to come back, what a hearty box of 
the cars I would give him ! ” 

While the old gentleman regretted, Marius applauded- 
himself. He was glad that he had suffered, and was still 
suffering, for he did so for his father. His only way of re- 
sembling him, was to be vali?nt against indigence, as he had 
been brave against the enemy, and this was doubtless what 
the Colonel meant by the words. He mil be worthy of it — 
words which Marius continued to bear, not on his chest, as 
the Colonel’s letter had disappeared, but in his heart. 

In tlr meanwhile, though, he was called to the bar, and 
whatever Father Gillenormand might think, he did not prac- 
tise, for reverie had turned Mm away from oratory. It was 
a bore to flatter attorneys, attend regularly at the palace and 
seek for briefs. And why should he do so ? He could live by 
writing. He saw no reason to change his means of existence ; 
his obscure task was certain, he had but little labour over 
it, and he considered his income satisfactory. One of the 
publishers for whom he worked, M. Magimel, I think, offered 
to take him into his house, lodge him comfortably, find him 
regular work, and pay him one thousand five hundred francs 
a year. To be comfortably lodged and have one thousand 
five hundred francs a year ! doubtless agreeable things, but 
then, to resign his liberty, to be a hired servant, a sort of 



LES MISEBABLES 


266 


literarf clerk I In the opinion of Marius, if he accepted, 
his position would become better and worse ; he would gain 
comfort and lose dignity. So he declined the offer. 

Marius lived in solitude ; through the inclination he had 
to remain outside everything, he held aloof from the society 
presided over by Enjolras. They remained excellent friends, 
and read* to help each other when the opportunity offered, 
but nothing more. Marius had two friends, one young Cour- 
feyrac, the other, old M. Maboeuf, and he inclined to the latter. 
In the first place, he owed tojiiim the revolution which had 
taken place in him, and his knowledge and love of his father. 
“ He operated on me for the cataract," he would say. Cer- 
tainly, this churchwarden had been decisive : but for all that, 
M. Maboeuf had only been in this affair the impassive agent of 
Providence. He had enlightened Marius accidentally and un- 
consciously, just as a candle does which some one brings into a 
room, but he had been the candle, and not the some one. As 
for the internal political revolution which had taken place in 
Marius, M. Maboeuf was entirely incapable of understanding, 
wishing, or deserving it. 

M. Maboeuf was a botanist, and had written and published 
a " Flora of the Environs of Cauteretz," with coloured plates, 
a work of some merit, of which^e possessed the plates, and 
sold it himself. He made a profit of about two thousand 
francs a year by the book, and that was nearly his whole 
fortune. Although poor, he had contrived by patience and 
privations, and with time, to form a valuable collection of all 
sorts of rare examples. He never went out without a book 
under his arm, and frequently returned with two. He had 
a tolerable stomach, a brother a 6ur6, very white hair, no teeth 
left in his mouth or in his mind, a tremor all over him, a 
Picard accent, a childish laugh, and the air of an old sheep. 
With all he had no other friend among the living than an 
old bookseller at the Porte St. Jacques of the name of Royol ; 
and the dream of his life was to naturalize indigo in France. 

About the year 1830 his brother the cure died, and almost 
immediately after, as when night arrives, the entire horizon 
became dark for M. Maboeuf. The bankruptcy of a notary 
despoiled him of ten thousand francs, all he possessed of his 
brother’s capital and his own, while the revolution of July 
produced a crisis in the book trade. In times of pressure 



266 


LES MISEBABLES 


the first thing which does not sell is a Flora^ and that of the 
Environs of Cauteretz stopped dead. Weeks passed without 
a purchaser. At times M. Mabceuf started at the sound of 
the house bell, but Mother Plutarch, his servant, would say to 
him sadly, “ It is the water-carrier, sir.” In a word, M. 
Mabceuf left the Rue Mezieres one day, abdicated his office 
as churchwarden, gave up St Sulpice, sold a portion, not of 
his books, but of his engravings, for which he cared least, and 
installed himself in a small house on the Boulevard Montpar- 
nasse, where, however, he only remained three months, for 
the ground-floor and garden cost three hundred francs, and 
he did not dare set aside more than two hundred francs for 
rent. He carried off his Florey his copper-plates, his herbals, 
portfolios, and books, and settled down near the Salpetriere, 
in a sort of hut, in the village of Austerlitz, where he rented 
for fifty crowns a year three rooms, a garden enclosed by a 
hedge, and a well. He took advantage of this removal to sell 
nearly all his furniture. On the day when he entered his new 
house he was in very good spirits, and drove in with his own 
hands the nails on which to hang the engravings ; he dug in 
his garden for the rest of the day, and at night, seeing that 
Mother Plutarch had an anxious look and was thoughtful, 
he tapped her on the should^er and said with a smile, “ We 
have the indigo.” Only two visitors, the publisher and Marius, 
were allowed admission to his hut of Austerlitz, a rackety 
name, by the way, which was most disagreeable to him. 

Marius felt a liking for this candid old man, who saw him- 
self slowly assailed by poverty, and yet was not depressed 
by it. Marius met Courfeyrac, and sought M. Moboeuf — 
very rarely, however — once br twice a month at the most. 
Marius's delight was to take long walks alone, either on the 
external boulevards at the Champ de Mars, or in the least 
frequented walks of the Luxembourg. It was in one of these 
walks that he discovered the Maison Gorbeau, and the isola- 
tion and the cheapness tempting him, he took a room there. 
He was only known by the name of M. Marius. 

Some of his father's old generals and old comrades invited 
him to come and see them, when they knew him, and Marius 
did not refuse, for they were opportunties to speak about his 
father. He called thus from time to time ujpon Count Fajol, 
General Bellavesne, and General Fr^rion at the In^ 



LES MISEBABLES 


267 


yaJides. There was generaUj music and dancing, and on 
such evenings Marius put on his best suit; but he never 
went to such parties except on days when it was freezing 
tremendously hard, for he could not pay for a vehicle, and he 
would not go unless his boots were like looking glasses. 

About the middle of the year 1831 the old woman who 
waited on* Marius told h im that his neighbours, the wretched 
Jondrette family, were going to be turned out. Marius, who 
spent nearly his whole time out of doors, scarce knew that 
he had neighbours. • 

“ Why are they turned out ! ” he asked. 

“ Because they do not pay their rent, and owe two quarters.*^ 

** How much is it ? ” 

“ Twenty francs,'* said the old woman. 

Marius had thirty francs in reserve in a drawer. 

“ Here are twenty-five francs,” he said to the woman, 
“ pay the rent of the poor people, give them five francs, and 
do not tell them where the money comes from.” 

At this time the regiment to which Theodule belonged 
was quartered in Paris. This was an opportunity for Aunt 
Gillenormand to have a second idea ; her first one had been 
to set Theodule watching Marius, and she now plotted to 
make him succeed him. 

One morning when M. Gillenormand was going to read some- 
thing like the Qiiotidienne, his daughter came in and said in her 
softest voice, for the interests of her favourite were at stake, — 

“ Papa, Theodule is coming this morning to pay his re- 
spects to you.” 

” Ah I ” said the old gentleman. 

Then he began reading, thorfght no more of the grand- 
nephew, and soon became angry, which nearly always hap- 
pened when he read. The paper he held, a Royalist one, we 
need hardly say, announced for the fmorrow, without any 
amenity, one of the daily evenbs of Paris at that day. ** The 
pupils of the schools of law and medicine were going to as- 
semble in the Pantheon Square — ^to deliberate.” The afiair 
was one of the questions of the moment, the artillery of the 
national guard, and a conflict between the war minister and 
the ** Citizen Militia,” on the subject of guns parked in the 
court-yard of the Louvre. The students were going to ” de- 
liberate ” on this, and it did not require much more to render 



268 


LES MISERABLES 


M. Gillenormand furious. He thought of Marius^ who was 
a student, and who would probably go, like the others, to 
deliberate at mid-day in the Pantheon Square.” 

While he was malnng these painful reflections Lieutenant 
Theodule came in, dressed in mufti, which was clever, and 
was discreetly introduced by Mile Gillenormand. Mile 
Gillenormand said aloud to her father, — 

“ Theodule, your grand-nephew.” 

And in a whisper to the lieutenant, — 

** Assent to everything.” o 

The lieutenant, but little accustomed to, such venerable 
meetings, stammered, with some timidity, ” Good morning, 
uncle,” and gave a bow which was half a military salute and 
half a reverence. 

” Ah, it's you, very good, sit down,” said the ancestor, 
and after saying this he utterly forgot the lancer. Theodule 
sat down, and M. Gillenormand got up. He began walking 
up and down the room, with his hands in his pockets, talking 
aloud, and feeling with his old irritated Angers the two watches 
which he wore in his two fobs. 

” That heap of scamps ! so they are going to meet in the 
Pantheon Square ! Vertu de ma mie / little ragamuffins who 
were at nurse yesterday ! ifyou were to squeeze their noses 
the milk would run out! And they are going to deliberate 
to-morrow I Where are we going ? It is clear that we are 
going to the abyss, and the descamisados have led us to it. 
The citizen artillery ! deliberate about the citizen artillery ! 
go and chatter in the open air about the squibs of. the Na- 
tional Guard ! and whom will they meet there ? Just let us 
see to what Jacobinism leads. 1 will wager whatever you 
like, a million against a counter, that there will be only lib- 
erated convicts and pick-pockets there, for the Republicans and 
the galley-slaves are like one nose and one handkerchief.” 

” That is true,” said Theodule. 

M. Gillenormand half-turned his head, saw Theodule, and 
went on, — 

” And then to think that that scamp had the villainy to 
become a Republican ! Why did you leave my house to” be- 
come a Republican ! Pest ! in the ffirst place, the people do not 
want your republic, for they are sensible, and know very well 
that there always have been kings, and always will be, and 



LES MISERABLES 


269 


they know, after all, that the people are only the people, and 
they laugh at your republic, do you hear, Cretin 1 Is not 
such a caprice horrible 1 " 

“ You are right, uncle," said Theodule. 

M. Gillenormand continued, — 

" Oh ! the young men of the present day are ragamuffins, 
they do all they can to make themselves ugly, — they dress 
badly, they are afraid of women, and they have an air of beg- 
ging round pettico.ats, which makes the girls ^augh ; on my 
word of honour, they look as^f ashamed mendicants of love. 
And all these siljy lads have political opinions, and it ought 
to be strictly prohibited. Ah, Marius ! ah, scoundrel ! to go 
and vociferate in the public square ! to discuss, debate, and 
form measures — they call them measures. Why, it is the end of 
of the world ; it is evidently the end of this wretched globe ; 
it wanted a final shove, and France has given it." 

" That is quite plain," said Theodule. 

And taking advantage of the moment during which M. 
Gillenormand was recovering breath, the lancer added magis- 
terially, — 

" There ought to be no other paper but the Moniteur, and 
no other book but the Army List." 

M. Gillenormand interruptedspa gesture which he had be- 
gun, turned round, gazed intently at Theodule the lancer be- 
tween the eyes, and said to him, — You are an ass." 

Marius at this period was a handsome young man of mid- 
dle height, with very black hair, a lofty and intelligent fore- 
head, open and impassioned nostrils, a sincere and calm air, 
and something haughty, pensife, and innocent was spread 
over his whole face. His profile, in which all the lines were 
rounded without ceasing to be firm, had that Germanic gen- 
tleness which entered ftance through Alsace and Lorraine, 
and that absence of angles which renders it so easy to recog- 
nize the Sicambri among the Romans, and distinguishes the 
leonine from the aquiline race. 

For more than a year Marius had noticed in a deserted 
walk of the Luxembourg, the one which is bordered by the 
Parapet de la Pepiniere, a man and a very young lady nearly 
always seated side by side at the most solitary end of the 
Walk, near the Rue de TOuest. Whenever that accident* 



270 


LES MISEBABLES 


which mingles with the promenades of people whose eye is 
turned inwards, led Marius to this walk, and that was nearly 
daily, he met this couple. The man seemed to be about 
sixty years of age ; he appeared sad and serious, and the 
whole of his person offered the robust and fatigued appear- 
ance of military men who have retired from service. If he 
had worn a decoration, Marius would have said, He is an 
old officer.'* He looked kind, but unapproachable, and never 
fixed his eye on that of another person. He wore blue trou- 
sers, a coat of the same colour^ and a broad-brimmed hat, all 
of which were constantly new, a black cravat, and a quaker's, 
that is to say, dazzlingly white, but very coarse shirt. A 
grisette who passed him one day said, “ What a clean old wid- 
ower." His hair was very white ; and from this circum- 
stance, Courfeyrac, who happened one day to be walking with 
Marius, christened him M. Leblanc, a name by which he con- 
tinued to be known. 

The first time that the young lady who accompanied him 
sat down with him upon the bench, which they seemed to have 
adopted, she was about thirteen or fourteen, so thin as to be 
almost ugly, awkward, insignificant, and promising to have 
perhaps very fine eyes some day. She wore the garb, at once 
old and childish, of boardeis at a convent, — a badly-cut 
dress of coarse black merino. Marius examined for two or 
three days the old man, who was not yet aged, and this little 
girl, who was not yet a maiden, and then paid no further atten- 
tion to them. They, on their side, seemed not even to see him, 
and talked together with a peaceful and careless air. , The girl 
talked incessantly and gaily, the old man spoke but little, and 
at times he fixed upon her ey^ filled with ineffable paternity. 
Marius had formed the mechanical habit of walking in this 
alley, and during a whole year invariably found them there. 

In the second year, just at the point of our story which the 
reader has now reached, it happened that Marius broke off 
his daily walk in the Luxembourg, without exactly know- 
ing why, and was nearly six mont^ without setting foot in 
the garden. One day, however, he returned to it, went 
straight to ** his " walk, and when he reached the end he no- 
ticed the well-known couple seated on the same bench, but 
when he drew near he found that, while it was the same man, 
it did not seem to be the same girl. The person he now 



LES MISERABLES 


271 


saw was a tall and lovely creature, possessing the charming 
outlines of the woman, at the precise moment when they are 
still combined with the most simple graces of the child — a 
fugitive and pure moment which can be rendered only by the 
two words “ fifteen years.” 

When Marius passed her he could not see her eyes, which 
she constantly drooped ; he only saw her long lashes, which 
revealed modesty. This did not prevent the lovely girl from 
smiling while she listened to the white-haired' man who was 
speaking to her, and nothing could be so ravishing as this 
fresh smile with, the down-cast eyes. In six months the girl 
had become a maiden, ha d not only grown, but was idealized. 

She wore a black brocade dress, a cloak of the same ma- 
terial, and a white crape bonnet ; her white gloves displayed 
the elegance of her hand, which was playing with the ivory 
handle of a parasol, and her satin boot revealed the smallness 
of her foot ; when you passed her, her whole toilette exhaled 
a youthful and penetrating perfume. As for the man, he was 
still the same. The second time that Marius passed, the girl 
raised her eyelids, and he could see that her eyes were of a 
deep coerulcan blue, but in this veiled azure there was only 
the glance of a child. She looked at Marius carelessly, as 
she would have looked at the dkild playing under the syca- 
mores, or the marble vase that threw a shadow over the 
bench ; and Marius continued his walk, thinking of something 
else. He passed the bench four or five times, but did not 
once turn his eyes towards the young lady. On the following 
days he .returned as usual to the Luxembourg ; as usual he 
found the “ father and daughter ” there, but he paid no further 
attention to them. But one dajr, as he passed by the bench, 
the young lady happened to raise her eyes on him, and their 
two glances met. There is a day on which every maiden looks 
in this way, and woe to the man on whom her glance falls. 

On returning to his garret in the evening, Marius took a 
glance at his clothes, and perceived for the first time that he 
had been guilty of the extraordinary impropriety and stu- 
pidity of walking in the Luxembourg in his “ every-day 
dress,” that is to say, with a broken-brimmed hat, clumsy 
boots, black trousers, white at the knees, and a black coat 

S ie at the elbows. The next day, at the accustomed hour, 
ariuB took out of the drawers his new coat, his new trousers. 



272 


LES MISERABLES 


his new hat, and his new boots ; he dressed himself in this 
complete panoply, put on gloves, an extraordinary luxury, 
and went off to the Luxembourg. 

On reaching the Luxembourg and turning into the walk 
he saw M. Leblanc and the young lady at the other end, 
seated on “ their ** bench. As he drew near, his pace grad- 
ually decreased. He passed in front of them, upright and firm, 
but red up to the ears, and not daring to take a glance either 
to the right orieft. She was dressed as on the previous day, 
and he heard an ineffable voice which must “ be her voice.” 
She was talking quietly, and was very beautiful ; he felt it, 
though he did not attempt to look at her,” and yet,” he thought, 
” she could not fail to have esteem and consideration for me if 
she knew that I am the real author of the dissertation on Marcos 
Obregon de La Honda, which M. Fran9ois de Neufehateau 
appropriated, and made a preface to his edition of Gil Bias.” 

He passed the bench, went to the end of the walk, which 
was close by, then turned again and passed the young lady. 
This time he was very pale, and his feelings were most dis- 
agreeable. He went away from the bench and the maiden, 
and while turning his back, he fancied that she was looking 
at him, and this made him totter. He did not again attempt 
to pass the bench ; he stopped at about the middle of the 
walk and then sat down, a most unusual thing for him, taking 
side glances, and thinking in the innermost depths of his 
mind that after all it was difficult for a person whose white 
bonnet and black dress he admired to be absolutely insensible 
to his showy trousers and new coat. At the end of a quarter 
of an hour, he rose, as if about to walk towards this bench 
which was surrounded by a ‘glory, but he remained motion- 
less. For the first time in fifteen months he said to himself 
that the gentleman who sat there daily with his daughter 
must have noticed him, and probably considered his assiduity 
strange For the first time, too, he felt it was rather irre- 
verent to designate this stranger, even in his own thoughts, 
by the nickname of M. Leblanc. 

He remained thus for some minutes with hanging head, 
making sketches in the sand with the stick he held in his 
hand. Then he suddenly turned in the direction opposed to 
the bench and went home. That day he forgot to go to din- 
ner ; he noticed the fact at eight in the evening, and, as it 



LES MISERABLES 


S73 


waa too late to go to the Rue St Jacques, he ate a lump or 
bread. He did not go to bed till he had brushed and care- 
fully folded up his coat. 

One day Marius had seated himself on a bench, holding 
in his hand an open book, when he suddenly started. M. 
Leblanc had left his bench, the girl was holding her father^s 
arm, and* both were proceeding slowly toward the middle of 
the walk where Marius was. He shut his book, then opened 
it again and triecL to read, but he trembled, and the glory 
came straight toward him. • Oh, heaven ! ” he thought, I 
shall not have the time to throw myself into an attitude. 
What I she is going to pass here; her feet will tread this 
sand, this walk, two paces from me 1 He was quite upset, 
he would have liked to have been very handsome, and have the 
cross. He heard the soft measured sound of their footsteps 
approaching him, and he imagined that M. Leblanc was taking 
a wry glance at him. The girl passed, and in pausing looked 
at him, — ^looked at him intently, with a thoughtful gentleness 
which made Marius shudder from head to foot. It seemed 
to him as if she reproached him for keeping away from her 
so long, and was saying, “ 1 have come instead.'^ She ap- 
peared to him lovelier than she had ever been, lovely with a 
beauty at once feminine and angelkf,'a perfect beauty, which 
would have made Petrarch sing and Dante kneel. 

He looked after her till she disappeared, and then walked 
about the garden like a maniac. He probably at times laughed 
to himself and talked aloud. He was so thoughtful among 
the nurse girls that each of them fancied him in love with her. 

M. Leblanc eventually noticed something, for frequently 
when Marius arrived he got upland began walking. He left 
their accustomed seat, and adopted at the other end of the 
walk the bench close to the Gladiator, as if to see whether 
Marius would follow them. Marius did not understand it, 
and committed this fault. “ The father ** began to become 
unpunctual, and no longer brought his “ daughter” every day. 
One evening at twilight Marius found on the bench which 
“ M. Leblanc and his daughter " had just quitted, a simple, 
unembroidered handkerchief, which, however, was white and 
pure, and seemed to him to exhale inefEable odours. He 
seised it with transport, and noticed that it was marked with 
the letters U. F. Marius knew nothing about the lovely 



274 


LES MISERABLES 


girl, neither her family, her name, nor her abode ; these two 
letters were the first thing of hers which he seized, adorable 
initials, upon which he at once began to erect his scaffolding. 
U. was evidently her Christian name. “ Ursule ! he thought; 
“ what a delicious name I " Not knowing that the handker- 
chief was really the old gentleman's, he placed it on his heart 
during the day, and at night upon his lips to go to sleep. 

In three or four weeks Marius had devoured this happi- 
ness, and craved another ; he wislied to know where she lived. 
He followed “ Ursule." She Ik/ed in the Rue de TOuest, 
the most isolated part, in a new three-storeyed house of 
modest appearance. From this moment Marius added to his 
happiness of seeing her at the Luxembourg the happiness of 
following her home. He knew what her name was, her 
Christian name at least, he knew where she lived, and he now 
wanted to know who she was. One evening after following 
them home, and watching them disappear in the gateway, 
he went in after them, and valiantly addressed the porter. 

Is that the gentleman of the first floor who has just come 
in 1" 

“ No," the porter answered, " it is the gentleman of the 
third floor." 

Another step made ! Tlria success emboldened Marius. 

" Front ? " he asked. 

“ Hang it," said the porter, “ our rooms all look on the 
street." 

" And what is the gentleman's position ? " Marius con- 
tinued. 

** He lives on his property. He is a very good man, who 
does a deal of good to the wretched, though he is not rich.*^ 

“ What is his name ? " Marius added. 

The porter raised his head and said, — 

** Do you happen to be a police spy, sir ? " 

Marius went off much abashed, but highly delighted, for 
he was progressing. 

On the morrow M. Leblanc made but a short appearance 
at the Luxembourg, and went away in broad daylight. Marius 
followed them to the Rue de I'Ouest, as was his habit, and 
on reaching the gateway M. Leblanc made his daughter go 
in first, then stopped, turned, and looked intently at Marius. 
The next day they did not come to the Luxembourg, and 



LES MISEBABLES 


275 


Marius waited in vain the whole day. At nightfall, he went 
to the Rue de I'Ouest, and noticed a light in the third-floor 
windows, and he walked about beneath these windows till 
the light was extinguished. The next day there was no one 
at the Luxembourg ; Marius waited all day, and then went 
to keep his night-watch under the windows. This took him 
till ten o^clock, and his dinner became what it could, for fever 
nourishes the sick man and love the lover. Eiglit days passed 
in this way, and M. Leblanc and his daughter did not again 
appear at the Luxembourg.* Marius made sorrowful con- 
jectures, for he did not dare watch the gateway by day ; he 
contented himself with going at night to contemplate the red- 
dish brightness of the window-panes. He saw shadows pass 
now and then, and his heart beat. 

On the eighth day, when he arrived beneath the windows, 
there was no light. He waited till ten o^clock, till midnight, 
till one o'clock, but no light was kindled at the third-floor 
windows, and nobody entered the house. He went away 
with very gloomy thoughts. On the morrow — for he only 
lived from morrow to morrow, and he had no to-day, so to 
speak — he saw nobody at the Luxembourg, as ho expected, and 
at nightfall he went to the house. There was no light at the 
windows, the shutters were cIosOT, and the third floor was all 
darkness. Marius rapped, walked in, and said to the porter, — 
“ The gentleman on the third floor i 
“ Gone away," the porter answered. 

Marius tottered, and asked feebly, — 

“ Since when ? " 

Yesterday." . 

“ Where is he living now 1 
“ I do not know." 

“ Then he did not leave his new address ? ” 

‘‘ No." 

And the porter, raising his nose, recognized Marius. 

** What ? it's you, is it 1 " he said ; “ why, you must really 
be a spy." 

Summer passed away, then autumn and winter arrived - 
Neither M. Leblanc nor the young lady had set foot again in 
the Luxembourg, while Marius had but one thought, that of 
seeing again this sweet and adorable face. He fell into a dark 
Borrow, and it was all over with him. He made himself a hun- 



276 


LES MISEBABLES 


died reproaches. ** Why did I follow her ! I was so happy 
merely in seeing her ! She looked at me, and was not that 
immense ? She looked as if she loved me, and was not that 
everything 1 I wanted to have what ? there is nothing 
beyond that, and I was absurd. It is my fault,” etc., etc. 

He began living again more than ever in solitude, crushed, 
giving way to his internal agony, walking up and down like a 
wolf caught in a trap, everywhere seeking the absent one, and 
brutalized by love. 

One day he had a meeting which produced a strange effect 
upon him. In the little streets adjoining the Boulevard 
des Invalides he passed a man dressed like a workman, and 
wearing a deep-peaked cap, under which white locks peered out. 
Marius was struck by the beauty of this white hair, and looked 
at the man, who was walking slowly, and as if absorbed in 
painful meditation. Strange to say, he fancied that he could 
recognize M. Leblanc, — it was the same hair, the same profile, 
so far as the peak allowed him to see, and the same gait, though 
somewhat more melancholy. But what was the meaning of 
this disguise ? Marius was greatly surprised, and when he 
came to himself again his first impulse was to follow the man, 
but he hit on this idea too late, for he was no longer tlierc. He 
had turned into some side l^treet, and Marius was unable to 
find him again. After all,” he said to himself, ** it is pro- 
bably only a resemblance.” 

CHAPTER XIII 

Marius still lived at No. 5 O 752 , but he paid no attention to 
his fellow-lodgers. At this period, in truth, there were no 
other tenants in the house, but himself and those Jondrettes 
whose rent he had once paid, without ever having spoken to 
father, mother, or daughters. The other lodgers had removed, 
were dead, or turned out for not paying their rent. 

One evening when it was his hour to dine, Marius crossed 
the threshold of his door and slowly walked along the boulevard 
in the direction of the Rue St. Jacques. He walked thought- 
fully with hanging head. All at once he felt himself elbowed 
in the fog. He turned and saw two girls in rags, one tall and 
thin, the other not quite so tall, who passed hurriedl]r, panting, 
frightened, and as if running away. Marius noticed in the twi- 



LES MISEBABLES 


277 


light their livid faces, uncovered heads, dishevelled hair, their 
ragged petticoats, and bare feeting. While running they 
talked together, and the elder said, — 

“ The slops came, and nearly caught me/* 

Marius understood that the police had nearly caught the 
two girls, and that they had arranged to escape. They buried 
themselves beneath the trees behind him, and for a few 
minutes produced a sort of vague whiteness in the obscurity. 
Marius had stopped for a moment, and was just going on, 
when he noticed a small grey packet lying at his feet. He 
stooped down and picked it up ; it was a sort of envelope, ap- 
parently containing papers. 

“ Why," he said, “ these poor girls must have let it fall.** 
He turned back and called to them, but could not find them. 
He thought they must be some distance off, so he thrust the 
parcel into his pocket and went to dinner. 

At night, as he undressed to go to bed, his hand felt in his 
coat pocket the parcel which he had picked up in the boulevard 
and forgotten. He thought that it would be as well to open 
it, as the packet might contain the girls’ address. He opened 
the envelope, which was not scaled, and contained four letters, 
also unsealed. The addresses were on all four, and they ex- 
haled a frightful perfume of tobttcco. The first letter was 
addressed to Madame, Madame la Marquise de Grucheray, on 
the Square opposite the Charnber of Deputies, Marius said to 
himself that he would probably find the information he wanted, 
and as the letter was not sealed he could read it without impro- 
priety. It was drawn up as follows : — 

“ Madame la Marquise, 

“ The virtue of clemency and piety is that which unites 
society most closely. Move your Christian feelings, and dain 
a glance of compassion at this unfortunate Spaniard, and 
victim to this loyalty and attachment to the sacred cause 
of legitimacy, who shed his blood, devoted the whole of his 
fortune to defend this cause, and is now in the greatest missery. 
He does not doubt that you, honoured lady, will grant some 
assistence to preserve an existence entirely painful for a soldier 
of honour and edducation, who is covered with wounds, and he 
reckons before hand on the humanity which annimates you, and 
the interest which your ladyship takes in so unhappy a nacion. 



278 LES MISERABLES 

His prayer will not be in vain, and His gratitude will retain her 
oharming memory. 

“ With the most respectful feelings, I have the honour to be, 
madame, 

“ Don Alvares, Spanish captain of cawalry, a 
Royalist refugee in France, who is travelling for his coun- 
try and who wants the means to continue his jurney.’’ 

No address was attached to the signature, but Marius 
hoped to find it in the second letter, of which the superscrip- 
tion was, — To Madame^ Madame la Comtesse de Montvernet, 
No. 9, Rue Casette.” This is what Marius read, — 

“ My Lady Comtess, 

“ It is a unhappy mother of a family of six children, 
of which the youngest is only eight months old ; I ill since my 
las* confinement, deserted by my husband, and hawing no 
ressourse in the world, living in the most frightful indijance. 

“ Trusting in your ladyship, she has the honour to be, 
madame with profound respect, 

“ Antoinette Balizard.** 

Marius passed to the third letter, which was, like the pro* 
ceding, a petition, and hej^ead in it, — 

“ Monsieur Pahourgeot^ Elector ^ wholesale dealer in caps. 
Rue St. Denis y at the comer of the Rue AuT^-Fers. 

“ I venture to address this letter to you, to ask you 
to grant me the pretious favour of your sympathies, and to 
interest you in a litterary man, who has just sent a drama to 
the Theatre Fran^ais. The subject is historical, and the scene 
takes place in Auvergne in the time of the Empire ; the style, 
I believe, is natural, laconic, and may posess some merit. 
There are couplets for singing at four places. The comic, the 
serious, and the unexpected elements are blended in it with a 
variety of characters, and a tinge of romance is lightly spread 
through the whole plot, which moves misteriously, and the 
finale takes place amid several brilliant tableaux. My prin* 
cipal desire is to sattisfy the desire which progressively ani* 
mates sosiety, that is to say fashion, that capritious and vague 
whirligig which changes with nearly every wind. 

** In spite of these qualities, I have reason to fear that 
jealousy and the selfishness of privileged authors may obtain 



LES MISERABLES 279 

my exclusion from the stage, for 1 am not unaware of the 
vexation which is caused to new comers. 

“ Monsieur Pabourgeot, your just reputation as the enlight- 
ened protector of literary men, emboldens me to send to 
you my daughter, who will explain to you our indijant situa- 
tion, wanting for bread and fire in this winter season. To tell 
you that 1 wish you to accept the homage which I desire to 
make to you of my drama, and all those that may succeed it, is 
to prove to you how much I desire the honour of sheltering 
myself under your aegis, and adorning my writings with your 
name. If you dain to honour me with the most modest offer- 
ing, I will at once set to work writing a coppy of verses, by 
which to pay you my debt of grattitude. These verses, which I 
will try to render as perfect as possible, will be sent to you 
before they are insirted in the beginning of the drama, and 
produced on the stage. 

My most respectful homage to Monsieur and Madame 
Pabourgeot. 

Glenflot, man of letters. 

" P.S. — ^If it was only forty sous. I appologize for sending 
my daughter, and not paying my respects personaly, but sad 
reasons of dress do not allow me, alas ! to go out/* 

Marius then opened the last letter, which was addressed 
to — The Benevolent gentleman of the church of St Jacques du 
HauJt-jiaaj and it contained the following few lines : — 

“ Benevolent man, — 

“ If you will dain to accompany my daughter you will 
witness a misserable calamity, and I will show you my certifi- 
cates. 

** At the sight of these dokuments your generous soul will 
be moved by a feeling of sensitive benevolence, for true philo- 
sophers always experience lively emotions. 

“ Allow, compasionate man, that a man must experience 
the most cruel want, and that it is very painful to obtain any 
relief, by having it attested by the authorities, as if a man 
were not at liberty to suffer and die of inanicion, while waiting 
till our missery is releaved. Fate is too cruel to some, and too 
lavish or protecting for others. I await your presence or your 
offering, iz you dain to make one, and I beg you to believe in 



280 


LES MISERABLES 


the grateful feelings with which I have the honour of being, 
really magnamious sir, 

“ Your very humble and most 
V obedient servant, 

P. Fabantou, dramatic artist/* 

After reading these four letters Marius did not fihd himself 
much more advanced than before. In the first place not one 
of the writers gave his address ; and next, they appeared to 
come from four different individuals, “ Don Alvarez, Madame 
Balizard, Genflot the poet, and Fabantou the dramatic artist 
but these letters offered this peculiarity, that they were all in 
the same hand-writing. What could he concluded from this, 
save that they came from the same person ? Moreover — and 
this rendered the conjecture even more probable — the paper, 
which was coarse and yellow, was the same for all four, the 
tobacco smell was the same, and though an attempt had evi- 
dently been made to vary the hand-writing, the same ortho- 
graphical mistakes were reproduced with the most profound 
tranquillity, and Glenflot, the literary man, was no more exempt 
from them than the Spanish captain. To strive and divine 
this mystery was time thrown away, and if he had not picked 
it up it would have looked •like a mystification. After all they 
were papers evidently of no value. Marius returned them to 
the envelope, threw the lot into a corner, and went to bed. 

At about seven in the morning he had got up and break- 
fasted and was trying to set to work, when there came a gentle 
tap at the door. 

Come in,** said Marius.^ 

The door opened. 

“ What is the matter, Marne Bougon ? ** 

A voice, which was not Marne Bougon*s, replied, — I beg 
your pardon, sir/* 

It was a hollow, cracked, choking voice, the voice of an old 
man, rendered hoarse by dram-drinking and exposure to the 
cold. Marius turned sharply and noticed a girl. 

A very young girl was standing in the half-open door, a 
wretched, exhausted, fleshless creature, with only a chemise 
and a petticoat upon her shivering and frozen nudity ; pointed 
shoulders emerged from her chemise ; she was of an earthy 
palloii her han^ were red, her mouth degraded, and she had 



LES MISEBABLES 


281 


lost teeth ; her eye was sunken and hollow, and she had the 
outline of an abortive girl, and the look of a corrupted old 
woman, or fifty years blended with fifteen. She was one of 
those beings who are at once weak and horrible, and who make 
those shudder whom they do not cause to weep. 

“ What do you want, miss 1 Marius asked. 

The girl- replied, with her drunken galley-slave's voice,— 

** It is a letter for you. Monsieur Marius." 

She addressed him by name, and hence he could not doubt 
but that she had to do with him ; but who was this girl, and 
how did she know his name ? On opening the letter, he noticed 
that the large, clumsy wafer was still damp, which proved that 
the missive had not come a long distance, and he read, 

“ My amicable neighbour and young sir ! 

“ I have herd of your kindness to me, and that you paid 
my half-year's rent six months go. I bless you for it, young 
sir. My eldest daughter wiU tell you that we have been with- 
out a morsel of bread for two days, — four persons, and my wife 
ill. If I am not deseived in my opinion, I dare to hc^e that 
your generous heart will be affected by this statment, and will 
arouse in you a desire to be propicious to me, by daining to 
lavish on me a trifling charity. « 

“ I am, with the distinguished consideration which is due to 
the benefactors of humanity, 

" JONDRBTTE. 

** P. S. My daughter will wait for your orders, my dear 
Monsieur Marius." 

This letter, in the midst of the obscure adventure which 
had been troubling Marius since tUe previous evening, was like 
a candle in a cellar ; all was suddenly lit up. This letter came 
from where the other letters came. It was the same hand- writing, 
the same style, the same orthography, the same paper, and the 
same tobacco smell. There were five letters, five stories, five 
names, five signatures, and only one writer. The Spanish cap- 
tain Don Alvarez, the unhappy mother Balizard, the dramatic 
author Genflot, and the old comedian Fabantou, were all four 
Jondrette, if, indeed, Jondrette's name were really Jondrette. 

During the lengthened period that Marius had inhabited 
this No. 60-52, he had, we may suppose, but rare occasions to 
see, or even ca^h a glance of his very low neighbours. Now he 



LES MISERABLES 


saw everything clearly. He comprehended that his neighbour 
Jondrette had hit upon the trade of working upon the charity 
of benevolent persons, that he procured addresses and wrote 
under supposititious names, to people whom ho supposed to be 
rich and charitable, letters which his children delivered at their 
risk and peril, for this father had attained such a stage that he 
hazarded his daughters ; he was gambling with destiny, and 
staked them. 

While Marius was bending on the young girl an astonished 
and painful glance, she was walking about the garret with the 
boldness of a spectre and without troubling herself in the slight- 
est about her state of nudity. She moved the chairs about, dis- 
turbed the toilette articles on the chest of drawers, felt Marius* 
clothes, and rummaged in every corner. 

Marius w^as thinking, and left her alone, and she walked up 
to the table. 

Ah ! " she said, “ books. I know how to read.” 

She quickly seized the book lying on the table, and read 
rather fluently, — 

“ General Bauduin received orders to carry with the five 
battalions of his brigade the Chateau of Hougomont, which is 
in the centre of the plain of Waterloo — ” 

She broke off. •• 

” Ah, Waterloo, I know all about that. It was a battle in 
which my father was engaged, for he served in the army. We 
are thorough Bonapartists, we are. Waterloo was fought 
against the English.” 

She laid down the book, took up a pen, and exclaimed, 
” And I can write, too. Would you like a proof ? Stay, I 
will write a line to show you.” 

And ere he had time to answer she wrote on a sheet of 
white paper in the middle of the table, * Here are the slops.* 
Then throwing down the pen, she added, — 

There are no errors in spelling, as you can see, for my 
sister and I were well educated. We have not always been 
what we are now, we were not made — ” 

Here she stopped, fixed her glassy eye on Marius, and burst 
into a laugh, as she said, with an intonation which contained 
every possible agony, blended with every possible cynicism,-— 

“ Bosh ! ” and then added, “ Do you know, M* Marius, that 
you are a very good-looking fellow ! ” 



LES MISEBABLES 


Her voice tried to be very soft, and only succeeded in being 
very low ; a part of her words was lost in the passage from 
the larynx to the lips, as on a pianoforte some keys of which 
are broken. Marius had gently recoiled. 

** I have a packet,” he said, with his cold gravity, “ which 
I believe, belongs to you. Allow me to deliver it to you.” 

And he -handed her the envelope which contained the four 
letters ; she clapped her hands and said, — 

“ We looked for it everywhere.” 

Then she quickly seized the4)arcel, and undid the envelope, 
while saying, — 

“ Lord of Lords ! how my sister and I did look for it I And 
so you found it ? You see, it was dropped while we were 
running, and it was my brat of a sister who was such an ass. 
When we got home we could not find it, and as we did not 
wish to be beaten, which is unnecessary, we said that we had 
delivered the letters, and that the answer was Nix ! and here 
are the poor letters ! So then, it was you that we ran against 
last night ? We could not see anything, and I said to my 
sister, * is it a gentleman ? * and she answered, ‘ Yes, I think it is 
a gentleman ? ' ” 

While saying this she had unfolded the petition addressed 
to the “ benevolent gentleman of the church of St. Jacques du 
Haut-pas.” 

Hilloh ! ” she said, this is the one for the old swell who 
goes to mass. Why, 'tis just the hour, and I will carry it to 
him. He will perhaps give us something for breakfast.” 

Then she burst into a laugh, and added, — 

“ Do you know what it will be if we breakfast to-day ? We 
shall have our breakfast of the daf before yesterday, our dinner 
of the day before yesterday, our breakfast of yesterday, our 
dinner of yesterday, all at once this morning. Well, hang it 
all ! if you are not satisfied, rot, dogs ! ” 

This reminded Marius of what the hapless girl had come to 
get from him. 

After feeling in the depths of all his pockets, Marius suc- 
ceeded in getting together five francs sixteen sous ; it was at 
this moment all that he possessed in the world, “ Here is my 
to-day's dinner,” he thought, and to-morrow will take care 
of itself.” He kept the sixteen sous, and gave the girl the five- 
franc piece, which she eagerly clutched. 



284 


LES HISEBABLES 


** Five francs ! a shiner ! a monarch ! ain't that stunning ? 
Well, you are a jolly cock, and I do the humble to you. Huirah 
for the brick ! two days' grub ; here's a feed ; beans and bacon 
and a belly-full ; you're a oner ! "* 

She pulled her chemise up over her shoulder, gave Marius a 
deep courtesy, and a familiar wave of the hand, and walked 
towards the door, saying, — 

“ Good day sir, but no matter. I'll go and find my old swell.” 

As she passed she noticed on the drawers an old crust of 
dry bread, mouldering in the djust ; she caught it up, and bit 
into it savagely, grumbling, — 

It is good, it is hard ; it breaks my teeth ! 

Then she left the room. 

When she was gone Marius looked at the wall which separa- 
ated him from the Jondrettes, as if his pitying glance could 
pass through the partition, and warm the unhappy beings. 
The wall was a thin coating of piaster, supported by laths and 
beams, so unsubstantial that it allowed the murmurs of words 
and voices to bo distinctly heard. A man must be a dreamer 
like Marius not to have noticed the fact before. No paper was 
himg on either side of the wall, and its clumsy construction 
was plainly visible. Almost unconsciously Marius examined 
this partition ; for at times reverie examines, scrutinizes, and 
observes much as thought does. All at once he rose, for he 
had just noticed near the ceiling a triangular hole produced 
by the gap between three laths. The plaster which once cover- 
ed this hole had fallen ofi, and by getting on his chest of drawers 
he could see through this aperture into the room of the Jond- 
rettes. Commiseration has, and should have, its curiosity, 
and it is permissible to regard misfortune traitorously when we 
wish to relieve it. “ Let me see," thought Marius, “ what 
these people are like, and what state they are in." He clam- 
bered on the drawers, put his eye to the hole, and looked. 

Marius was poor, and his room was indigent ; but the garret 
into which he was now looking was abject, dirty, fetid, infecti- 
ous, dark, and sordid. The furniture only consisted of a 
straw-bottomed chair, a rickety table, a few old earthenware 
articles, and in the corners two indescribable beds. The only 
light came through a sky-light with four panes of glass, and 
festooned with spider-webs. The walls had a leprous look, 
and were covered with gashes and scars, like a face disfigured 



LES MISERABLES 


28S 


by some horrible disease, and a blear-eyed damp oozed from 
them. Obscene designs, clumsily drawn in charcoal, could be 
distinguished on them. 

One of the beds was near the door, the other near the win- 
dow, but the ends of both ran down to the mantel-piece, and 
faced Marius. In a corner near the hole through which he 
was peeping, a coloured engraving, in a black frame, repre- 
sented a sleeping woman and a sleeping child, the child lying 
on the woman’s kne§s, an eagle in the clouds with a crown in 
its beak, and the woman removing the crown from the child’s 
head, without awakening it, however. In the background 
Napoleon, surrounded by a glory, was leaning against a dark 
blue column, with a yellow capital, that bore the following 
inscription : 

Maringo. 

Austerits 

Jena. 

Waqrammb. 

Blot. 

Below this frame a sort of wooden panel, longer than it was 
wide, was placed on the ground, and leaning against the wall. 
It looked like a picture turned from the spectator, or some 
sign-board detached from a wall, and forgotten there while 
waiting to be hung again. At the table, on which Marius no- 
ticed pen, ink, and paper, a man was seated, of about sixty 
years of age, short, thin, livid, haggard, with a sharp, cruel, and 
listless look, a hideous scamp. This man had a long grey beard, 
and wore a woman’s chemise, which allowed his hairy chest, 
and naked arms, bristling with grey hairs, to bo seen. Under 
this chemise might be noticed muddy trousers, and boots out 
of which his toes stuck. He had a pipe in his mouth, and was 
smoking ; there was no bread in the garret, but there was still 
tobacco. He was writing, probably some letter like those 
which Marius had read. 

A stout woman, who might be forty or one hundred, 
crouched up near the chimney-piece on her naked feet. She 
too was only dressed in a chemise and a cotton petticoat, pieced 
with patches of old cloth, and an apron of coarse canvas con- 
cealed one half of the petticoat. Though this woman was 
sitting all of a heap you could see that she was very tall, and 
a species of giantess ny her himband’s side. She had frightful 



LES MISERABLES 


hair, of a reddish auburn, beginning to turn grey, which she 
thrust back every now and then with enormous strong hands, 
with flat nails. On one of the beds Marius caught a glimpse 
of a tali, sickly girl, sitting up almost naked, and with hanging 
feet, who did not seem to hear, see, or live ; she was, doubtless, 
the younger sister of the one who had come to him. She 
appeared to be eleven or twelve years of age, but on examining 
her attentively it could be seen that she was at least fourteen. 

In this lodging there was not the slightest sign of worbk; 
but in one corner were some iron implements of dubious ap- 
pearance. Marius gazed for some time at. this mournful in- 
terior, which was more terrifying than the interior of a tomb, for 
the human soul could be seen stirring in it and life palpitating. 

Marius, with an aching heart", was just going to descend 
from the species of observatory which he had improvised, 
when the door of the garret was suddenly opened, and the 
elder daughter appeared on the threshold. She had on her 
feet clumsy men's shoes, and was covered with an old ragged 
cloak, which Marius had not noticed an hour previously, and 
which she had probably left at his door, in order to inspire 
greater sympathy, and put on again when she went out. She 
came in, shut the door after her, stopped to fetch breath, for 
she was panting, and then cried, with an expression of 
triumph and joy, — 

“ He is coming ! 

“ Who ? ” the father asked ; ** the philanthropist from the 
church of St. Jacques ? " 

“ Yes. He is following me. He is coming in a hackney 
coach." 

“ If he is coming in a coach, how is it that you got before 
him ? Did you give him the address, and are you certain you 
told him the last door on the right in the passage ? I only hope 
he will not make a mistake. Did you find him at church i did 
he read my letter, and what did he say to you ? " 

“ Ta, ta, ta," said the girl, “ how you gallop, my good man. 
I went into the church, he was at his usual place, I made a 
courtesy and handed him the letter, he read it, and said to me, 
• Where do you live, my child 1 ' I said, ‘ I will show you the 
way, sir ; ' he said, * No, give me your address, for my daughter 
has some purchases to ii^e. I ^1 take a hackney coach, and 
be at your abode as soon as you.* I gave him the address, and 



LES MISEBABLES 


287 


when I mentioned the house he seemed surprised, and hesi- 
tated for a moment, but then said, ‘ No matter, I will go/ 
When mass was over I saw him leave the church and get into a 
coach with his daughter. And I carefully told him the last 
door on the right at the end of the passage.” 

** And what tells you that he will come ? ” 

“ I have just seen the coach turn into the Rue du Petit Ban- 
quier, and that is why I ran.” 

How do you know it is the same coach ? ” 

** Because I noticed the number, of course. Four hundred 
and forty.” 

Good, you are a clever girl.” 

The man drew himself up, and there was a species of illumina- 
tion on his face. 

“ Wife,” he cried, “ you hear ! Here is the philanthropist, 
put out the fire, and go to bed.” 

The stupefied mother did not stir, but the father, with the 
agility of a mountebank, seized the cracked pot which stood 
on the chimney-piece, and threw water on the logs. Then he 
said to his elder daughter, — 

“ Pull the straw out of the chair.” 

As his daughter did not understand him, he seized the chair 
and kicked the scat out. 

He then turned to the younger girl, who was on the bed, 
near the window, and shouted in a thundering voice, — 

Come off the bed directly, idler ; you never will do any- 
thing ; break a pane of glass ! ” 

The little girl jumped ofi the bed, shivering. 

Break 'a pane ! ” he continued. 

The child, with a sort of terrified obedience, stood on tip- 
toe, and broke a pane with her fist; the glass fell with a 
great clash. 

“ All right ! ” said the father. 

An icy blast blew tlirough the pane and entered the room. 
The external fog penetrated it, and dilated like a white wad- 
ding pulled open by invisible fingers. The snow could be 
seen failing through the broken pane, and the cold promised 
by the Candlemas sun had really arrived. The father took 
a look around him, as if to make sure that he had forgotten 
nothing, then he fetched an old spade, and strewed the ashes 
over the wet logs so as to conce^d them entirely. Then get- 



288 


LES MISEBABLES 


ting up and leaning against the chimney-piece, he said, — 
“ Now we can receive the philantliropist.” 

At this moment there was a gentle tap at the door ; the 
man rushed forward and opened it, while exclaiming with 
deep bows and smiles of adoration, — “ Come in, sir, deign to 
enter, my respected benefactor, as well as your charming 
daughter.” 

A man of middle age and a young lady stood in the door- 
way ; Marius had not left his post, and what he felt at this 
moment is beyond the human tongue. • 

It was She ; and any one who has loved knows the radiant 
meaning conveyed in the three letters that form the word 
She. It was the gentle creature he had lost, the star which 
had gleamed on him for six months, it was the forehead, the 
mouth, the lovely mouth which had produced night by depart- 
ing. The eclipse was over, and she now reappeared — ^reap- 
peared in this darlmess, in this attic, in this filthy den, in this 
horror, Marius trembled. She was still the same, though, 
perhaps, a little paler. She was accompanied by M. Leblanc, 
and she walked into the room and placed a rather large par- 
cel on the table. The elder girl had withdrawn behind the 
door, and looked with a jealous eye at the velvet bonnet, the 
satin pelisse, and the charming, happy face. 

The garret was so dark that persons who came into it felt 
much as if they were going into a cellar. The two new-comers, 
therefore, advanced with some degree of hesitation, scarce dis- 
tinguishing the vague forms around them, while they were per- 
fectly seen and examined by the eyes of the denizens in the 
attic, who were accustomed to this gloom. M. Leblanc walked up 
to Father Jondrette, with his sad and gentle smile, and said, — 
” You will find in this parcel, sir, new apparel, woollen 
stockings, and blankets.” 

Our angelio benefactor overwhelms us,” Jondrette said, 
bowing to the ground ; then, bending down to the ear of his 
elder daughter, he added in a hurried whisper, while the two 
visitors were examining this lamentable interior, — 

** Did I not say so ? clothes, but no money. They are all 
alike. By the way, how was the letter to the old ass signed ? 

” Fabantou.” 

” The actor, all right.*^ 

It was lucky that Jondrette asked this, for at the same 



LES MISEBABLES 289 

moment M. Leblanc turned to him, and said with the air of 
a person who is trying to remember the name, — 

“ I see that you are much to be pitied, Monsieur — 
Fabantou,” Jondrette quickly added. 

“ Monsieur Fabantou, yes, that is it, I remember.” 

** An actor, sir, who has been successful in his time.'' 

Here Jpndrette evidently believed the moment arrived to 
trap this philanthropist, and he shouted in a voice which had 
some of the bombast of the country showman, and the hu- 
mility of the professional beggar, — A pupil of Talma, sir ! 
I am a pupil of Talma ! Fortune smiled upon me formerly, 
but now, alas ! the turn of misfortune has arrived. You see, 
my benefactor, we have no bread, no fire. My poor babies 
have no fire. My sole chair without a scat ! a pane of glass 
broken ! in such weather as this ! my wife in bed, ill ! " 

Wliile speaking Jondrette had been looking at the ” phi- 
lanthropist " in a peculiar way, and seemed to be scrutinizing 
him attentively, as if trying to recall his recollections. All 
at once, profiting by a moment during which the new-comers 
were questioning the little girl about her injured hand, which 
had been cut by the broken glass, he passed close to his wife 
who was lying in her bed with a surprised and stupid air, and 
said to her, in a hurried whisper, — 

“ Look at that man ! ” 

Then he turned to M. Leblanc, and continued his lament- 
ations. 

Look, sir ! my sole clothing consists of a chemise of my 
wife's all torn, in the heart of winter. I cannot go out for 
want of a‘ coat, and if I had the smallest bit of a coat 1 would 
go and call on Mademoiselle Mars, who knows me, and is 
much attached to me. And do you know, my charming 
young lady, and you, my generous protector, I am bringing 
up my daughters in religion, sir, and did not wish them to 
turn to the stage. I intend to educate them virtuously, and 
they must be respectable and honest, and believe in God's 
Holy name. Well, worthy sir, do you know what will hap- 
pen to-morrow ? To-morrow is the fatal 4th February, the 
fast respite my landlord has granted me, and if I do not pay 
my rent by to-night, my eldest daughter, myself, my wife 
with her fever, my child with her wound, will be all four of 
UB tamed out of here into the street, shelterless in the rain 

K 



290 


LES MISEBABLES 


and snow. That is the state of the case, sir! I owe four 
quarters, a year's rent, that is to say, sixty francs.” 

Jondrette lied, for four quarters would only have been 
forty francs; and he could not owe four, as it was not six 
months since Marius had paid two for him. M. Leblanc 
took a five-franc piece from his pocket and threw it on the 
table. Jondrette had time to growl in his grown-up daughter's 
ear, — 

“ The scamp ! what does he expect me to do with his five 
francs ? They will not pay for the chair and a pane of glass. 
There's the result of making an outlay.” 

In the mean while, M. Leblanc had taken off a heavy 
brown coat, which he wore over his blue one, and thrown it 
on the back of a chair. 

“ Monsieur Fabantou,” he said, “ I have only these five 
francs about me, but I will take my daughter home and re- 
turn to-night. Is it not to-night that you have to pay ? ” 

Jondrette's face was lit up with a strange expression, and 
he hurriedly answered, — 

“ Yes, respected sir, I must be with my landlord by eight 
o'clock.” 

** I will be here by six, and bring you the sixty francs.” 

My benefactor ! ” Jondrette exclaimed wildly, and he 
added in a whisper, — 

“ Look at him carefully, wife.'^ 

M. Leblanc had given his arm to the lovely young lady, and 
was turning to the door, 

“ Till this evening, my friends," he said. 

At this moment the overcoat left on the back of the chair 
caught the eye of the elder ^rl. 

Sir,'*' she said, " you are forgetting your great-coat.” 

Jondrette gave his daughter a crushing glance, accom- 
panied by a formidable shrug of the shoulders, hut M. Leblano 
turned and replied smilingly, — 

I do not forget it, I'll leave it.'' 

Oh, my august benefactor,'' said Jondrette, " I am 
melting into tears! permit me to conduct you to your 
vehicle.” 

••if you go out,” M. Leblanc remarked, “put on that 
overcoat, for it is really very cold.” 

Jondrette did not let this be said twice, but eagerly put 



LES MISERABLES 291 

on the brown coat. Then they all three went out, Jondrette 
preceding the two strangers. 

Marius had lost nothing of all this scene, and yet in real- 
ity he had seen nothing. His eyes remained fixed on the 
maiden, his heart had, so to speak, seized and entirely enfolded 
her from her first step into the garret. During the whole 
time she had been there he had lived that life of ecstasy 
which suspends material perceptions, and concentrates the 
whole mind upon one point. While she was opening the 
parcel, and unfolding the clothes and blankets, questioning 
the sick mother kindly, and the little wounded girl tenderly, 
he watched her every movement, and tried to hear her words. 
Though he knew her eyes, her forehead, her beauty, her waist, 
and her walk, ho did not know the sound of her voice. He 
fancied that he had caught a few words once at the Luxembourg, 
but he was not absolutely sure. He would have given ten 
years of his life to hear her, and to carry off in his soul a 
little of this music, but all was lost in the lamentable braying 
of Jondrette' s trumpet. 

When she left the room he had but one thought — ^to follow 
her, to attach himself to her trail, not to leave her till he 
knew where she lived, or at least not to lose her again after 
having so miraculously found her. He leapt off the drawers, 
and seized his hat, but just as he laid his hand on the latch 
and was going out a reflection arrested him ; the passage 
was long, the staircase steep, Jondrette chattering, and M. 
Leblanc had doubtless not yet got into his coach again. If 
turning in the passage, or on the stairs, he were to perceive 
him, Marius, in this house, he would assuredly be alarmed, 
and find means to escape him agdSn. What was to be done t 
Wait awhile ? but during this delay the vehicle might start 
off. Marius was perplexed, but at length risked it, and left 
the room. There was no one in the passage, and he ran to 
the stairs, and as there was no one upon them, he hurried on 
and reached the boulevard just in time to see a hackney 
coach turning the corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier, on 
its road to Paris. 

Marius rushed in that direction, and, on reaching the 
corner of the boulevard, saw the hackney coach again rapidly 
rolling along the Rue Mouffetard ; it was already some dis- 
tance off, and he had no means of catching it up. At this mo- 



LES MISEBABLES 


ment Marius perceived a cab passing along the boulevard 
empty. There was only one thing to be done, get into this 
cab and follow the hackney coach ; that was sure, efficacious, 
and without danger. Marius made the driver a sign to stop, 
and shouted to him, “ By the hour ! " Marius had no cravat 
on, he wore his old vrorking coat, from which buttons were 
missing, and one of the plaits of his shirt was torn. The 
driver stopped, winked, and held out to Marius his left hand, 
as he gently rubbed his fore-finger with his thumb. 

** What do you mean ? " ^^arius asked. 

“ Payment in advance," said the coachman. 

Marius remembered that he had only sixteen sous in his 
pocket. 

‘‘ How much is it ? " 

“ Forty sous." 

I will pay on returning." 

The driver, in reply, whistled the air of La Palisse, and 
lashed his horse. Marius watched the cab go off with a 
haggard look ; for the want of twenty-four sous, he lost his joy 
his happiness, his love ! He thought bitterly, and, we must 
add, with deep regret, of the five franco which he had given 
that very morning to the wretched girl. He returned to his 
garret in despair. He might have said to himself that M. 
Leblanc had promised to return that evening, and that then 
he must contrive to follow him better ; but in his contempla- 
tion he had scarce heard him. 

Just as he was going up the stairs he noticed, on the other 
side of the wall, Jondrette, wrapped up in the " philanthro- 
pist's " over-coat, and conversing with one of those ill-looking 
men who are usually called growlers at the barriere. Though 
his preoccupation was so painful, he could not help saying to 
himself that the man to whom Jondrette was talking was 
like a certain Panchaud, alids Printanier, alia$ Bigrenaille, 
whom Courfeyrac had once pointed out to him, and who was 
regarded in the quarter as a very dangerous night-bird. * 

Marius ascended the stairs slowly, and at the moment when 
he was going to enter his cell he perceived behind him, in 
the passage, the elder of Jondrette's girls following him. 
This girl was odious in his sight, for it was she who had bia 
five francs, but it was too late to ask them back from her, 
for both the hackney coach and the cab were now far away« 



LES MISEBABLES 293 

Marius went into his room and threw the door to after him, 
but it did not close; he turned and saw a hand in the aperture! 

Who's that ? " he asked. 

It was the girl. 

you ! " Marius continued almost harshly. 

What do you want of me ? " 

She seemed thoughtful, and no longer had her boldness of 
the morning; she did not come in, but stood in the dark 
passage. 

“ Monsieur Marius," she said, you look sad ; what is the 
matter with you ? " 

“ Nothing. Leave me alone ! " 

Marius pushed the door again, but she still held it. 

Stay," she said, “ you are wrong. Though you are not 
rich, you were kind this morning; now tell me what is the 
matter with you. It is easy to see that you are in sorrow. 
What can I do to prevent it ? I do not ask for your secrets, 
and you need not tell them to me, but I may be of use to 
you. Surely I can help you, as I help my father." 

An idea crossed Marius's mind, for no branch is despised 
when we feci ourselves falling. He walked up to the girl. 

" Listen to me," he said ; “ you brought an old gentleman 
and his daughter here. Do you know their address 1 " 

‘‘ No." 

” Find it for me." 

The girl's eye, which was dull, had become joyous, but 
now it became gloomy. 

" Well, can you do it ? " Marius said. 

“ You shall have the ‘ lovely young lady's ' address." 

She hung her head, and thfen closed the door with a 
hurried gesture ; Marius fell into a chair, sunk in thoughts 
which he could not grasp, and suffering from a dizziness. 
All at once he was violently dragged out of his reverie, for 
he heard Jondrette's loud, hard voice uttering words full of the 
strangest interest for him. 

" I tell you that I am sure, and that I recognized him.” 

Of whom was Jondrette talking, and whom had he recog- 
nized ? M. Leblanc, the father of " his Ursule." What ! 
did Jondrette know him t Was Marius going to obtain, in 
this sudden and unexpected fashion, all the information without 
which his life was obscure for hknself ? He bounded upon 



2U 


LES MISEBABLES 


the chest of drawers, and resumed his place at the aperture 
in the partition : once more he saw the interior of Jondrette's 
den. The man had evidently just returned, for he was out of 
breath ; his daughters were seated, near the chimney-piece 
on the ground, the elder tjring up the younger's hand. The 
mother was crouching on the bed near the fire-place, with an 
astonished face, while Jondrette was walking up . and down 
the room with long strides and extraordinary eyes. The 
woman, who seemed frightened and struck with stupor before 
him, ventured to say, — 

“ Wliat, really, are you sure I ” 

** Sure ! it is eight years ago, but I recognized him at once. 
What ! did it not strike you ? He is better dressed, that's 
all ! Ah ! you mysterious old villain, I hold you ! ” 

He stopped and said to his daughters, — 

“ Be off, you two ! ” — ^and as the girls went out he added* 

You will be here at five o'clock precisely, both of you, for I 
shall want you/' 

When left alone with his wife, Jondrette began walking 
up and down the room again, and took two or three turns in 
silence. All at once he turned to his wife, folded his arms 
and exclaimed, — 

“ And shall I tell you something t The young lady — ” 

** Well, what ? " the wife retorted. 

Jondrette stooped down, and whispered, — 

“ It is she." 

** That one ? " the wife asked. 

No expression could render all there was in the mother's 
that one; it was surprise, age, hatred, and passion mingled 
and combined in a monstrdus intonation. 

“ It is not possible," she exclaimed ; “ when I think that 
my daughters go about barefooted, and have not a gown to put 
on ! " 

“ And I tell you that it is ; you will see." 

At this absolute assertion the woman raised her large red 
and white face, and looked at the ceiling with a hideous ex- 
pression. At this moment she appeared to Marius even 
more formidable than her husband, for she was a sow with 
the glance of a tigress. 

She leaped ofi the bed, and stood for a moment unkempt, 
with swollen nostrils, parted lips, and clenched fists ; then 



LES MISEBABLES 


296 


Bhe fell back again on the bed. The husband walked up and 
down, and paid no attention to his wife. After a short silence 
he went up to her, and stood in front of her with folded arms, 
as he had done a few moments previously. 

“ And shall I toll you something else ? " he said in a low, 
guttural voice. “ My fortune is made. I have had enough of 
this misery ! I wish to eat when I am hungry, and drink when 
I am thirsty. I want to have my turn now, and mean 
to be a bit of a millionaire before I rot ! ” 

‘‘ What do you mean ? " his wife asked. 

“ What do I mean ? listen ! " 

By a species of instinct, Jondrette lowered his voice, though 
not so low that his remarks escaped Marius. 

“ The Croesus is trapped, lie will come at six this even- 
ing to bring the sixty francs, the vagabond ! Did you notice 
how I plummed him about my landlord on February 4th ? 
Why, it is not a quarter-day, the ass ! Well, he will come at 
six o'clock, and at that hour the neighbour has gone to din- 
ner, and Mother Bougon is washing up dishes in town, so 
there will be no one in the house. The neighbour never 
comes in before eleven o'clock. The little ones will be on 
bhe watch, you will help us, and he will execute himself." 

" And suppose he does not 1 " the wife asked. Jondrette 
made a sinister gesture, and said, " We will do it for him.'* 

And he burst into a laugh : it was the first time that Ma- 
rius saw him laugh, and this laugh was cold and gentle, and 
produced a shudder. Jondrette opened a cupboard near 
the fire-place, and took out an old cap, which he put on his 
head, after brushing it with his cuff. 

“ Now," he said, “ I am going out, for I have some more 
people to see, good men. I shall be away as short a time 
as possible, for it is a famous affair ; and do you keep house." 

And pulling his cap over his eyes, he went out, but had 
only gone a short distance when the door opened again, and 
his sharp, intelligent face reappeared in the aperture. 

“ I forgot," he said. " Here is a five-franc piece ; you will 
get a chafing-dish of charcoal ready." 

" That will cost thirty sous, and with the rest I will buy 
some grub." 

" Hang it, no. I have something to buy too." 

" How much do you want 1 " 



296 


LES MISERABLES 


" From fifty sous to three francs/* 

“ There won't be much left for dinner." 

" Don't bother about eating to-day ; there is something 
better to do." 

Jondrette closed the door again, and then Marius heard 
his step as he went along the passage and down the stairs. 
It struck one at this moment from St. Medard's. 

Marius, dreamer though he was, possessed a firm and ener- 
getic nature. His habits of solitary contemplation, by de- 
veloping compassion and sympathy within him, had perhaps 
diminished the power of being irritated, but left intact the 
power of becoming indignant. Through the dark words which 
had been uttered he only saw one tiling distinctly, that a 
snare was preparing, and that he must foil the hideous com- 
binations of the Jondrettes by destroying their spider's web. 

In the horror with which the Jondrettes filled him, he 
felt a species of joy at the idea tliat it might perhaps be in 
his power to render such a service to her whom he loved. 
But what was he to do ? Should he wait for M. Leblanc at 
the gate at the moment when he arrived tliat evening and 
warn him of the snare ? But Jondrette and his comrades 
would see him on the watch. The place was deserted, they 
would find means to get him out of the way and the man 
whom Marius wished to save would be lost. It had just 
struck one, and as the snare was laid for six o'clock, Marius had 
five hours before him. There w^as only one thing to be done ; 
he put on bis best coat, took hi.s hat, and went out, making 
no more noise than if he were walking barefoot on moss. 

Once outside the house, he turned into the Rue du Petit 
Banquier. About the middle of the street he found himself 
near a very low wall which surrounded unoccupied ground* 
He was walking slowly, deep in thought, and the snow dead- 
ened his footsteps, when all at once he heard voices talking 
close to him. Looking over the wall, he saw two men seated 
in the snow, conversing in a low voice. One was a bearded 
man in a blouse, and the other a hairy man in rags. By 
thrusting his iicad over them Marius could hear the hairy 
man say to the other, with a nudge, — 

" With Patron Minette it cannot fail. It wfil be five 
handred balls for each, and the worst that can happen is five 
years, six years, or ten at the most." 



LES MISBBABLES 


297 


The other replied with some hesitation, and shuddering 
under his Greek cap, — 

That is a reality ; and people must not go to meet things 
of^that sort.” 

“ I tell you that the affair cannot fail,” the hairy man con- 
tinued. “ Father What's-his-name's trap will be all ready.” 

Then they began talking of a melodrama which they had 
seen on the previous evening at the Gaite. 

Marius walked on ; but it seemed to him that the obscure 
remarks of these men crouching in the snow must have some 
connection with JondretteV abominable scheme. He went 
toward the Faubourg Saint Marceau, and asked at the first 
shop he came to where he could find a police commissary. He 
was told at No. 14, Bue de Pontoise, and he proceeded 
there. 

On reaching No. 14 Hue de Pontoise, he went up to the 
first floor and asked for the commissary. 

“ He is not in at present,” said some clerk, “ but there is 
an inspector to represent him. Will you speak to him 1 is 
your business pressing ? ” 

“ Yes,” said Marius. 

The clerk led him to the commissary's office. A very tall 
man was leaning against the fender of a stove, and holding 
up with both hands the skirts of a mighty coat with three 
capes. He had a square face, thin and firm lips, thick grey- 
ish whiskers, and a look which seemed as if it was searching 
your pockets. This man did not appear much less ferocious 
or formidable than Jondrette ; for sometimes it is just as 
dangerous to meet the dog as the wolf. 

“ What do you want ? ” he asked Marius. 

** The police commissary.” 

** He is absent, but I represent him.” 

" It is a very secret and urgent affair.” 

In that case speak quick.” 

This man inspired both fear and confidence. Marius told 
him of his adventure — that a person whom he only knew by 
sight was to be drawn that very evening into a trap — that the 
scoundrel's name who invented the snare was Jondrette — 
that Jondrettes daughters would be on the watch,— that 
there were no means of warning the threatened man, as not 
even his name was known — and that, lastly, all this would 



298 


LES MISEBABLES 


come o£E at six in the evening, at the same deserted spot on 
the Boulevard de rH6pital, in the house No, 60-52« 

At this number the Inspector raised his head, and said 
coldly, — 

“ It must be in the rocm at the end of the passage. Patron 
Minette must be mixed up in this/' 

“ Patron Minette ! " said Marius, yes, I heard that name 
mentioned/' 

It is necessary here to state that at this time a quartette 
of bandits, Babet, Gueulemer, Ciaquesous, and Montparnasse 
governed the lowest depths of Paris. Gueulemer was a 
Hercules out of place, and his den was the Aich-Marion sewer. 
He was six feet high, had lungs of marble, and the bust of a 
Colossus — low forehead, wide temples, rough short 
hair, and a bushy beard. Babet called himself a chemist, 
had shown phenomena at fairs, and possessed a booth with a 
trumpet and the following showboard, Babet, dentist, and 
member of the academies, performs physical experiments on 
metals and metalloids, extirpates teeth, and undertakes stumps 
given up by the profession, one tooth, one franc, fifty centimes ; 
two teeth two francs ; three teeth two francs, fifty centimes ; 
Take advantage of the opportunity/' He was thin and 
learned — you might see the fight through his bones, but not 
through his eyes. Ciaquesous was a nightbiid. In the 
evening he emerged from a hole to which he returned before 
daybreak. He disappeared like a ghost, and when he ap- 
peared he seemed to .issue from the ground. Montparnasse 
a lad not yet twenty, was the gamin turned pickpocket, and 
the pickpocket garrotter. He was genteel, efFeminate, and 
graceful He lived by tobhery committed with violence. 
The cause of all his attacks was a longing to be well-dressed. 
The first grisetto who said to him, “ You are handsome," put 
the black spot in his heart, and made a Cain of this Abel. 
These four bandits formed a species of Proteus, winding 
through the police ranks and striving to escape the indis- 
creet glances of Vidocq, borrowing each others' names and 
tricks, and laying aside their personality as a man removes 
a false nose at a masquerade. Patron Minette was the 
name given in the subterranean larking places to the associa- 
tion of these four men. In the old and fantastic popular 
language Patron Minette si^ptufies the morning, and this 



LES MISERABLES 


299 


appellation was probably derived from the hour when the 
work of these malefactors finished, for dawn is the moment for 
spectres to fade away and bandits to part. 

Marius told the Inspector of the dialogue between the hairy 
man and the bearded man in the snow behind the wall in the 
Rue du Petit Banquier. The Inspector growled, — 

“ The hairy man must be Burgon, and the bearded man 
Demi-liard, alias Deux Milliards/' 

“ He was again Jooking down and meditating. 

‘* 50-52. I know the tenement. It is impossible for us 
to hide ourselves ip the interior without the actors perceiving us, 
and then they would escape by putting off the farce. That 
won't do, for I want to hear them sing and make them dance." 

This soliloquy ended, he turned to Marius, and asked, as 
he looked at him searchingly, — 

“ Would you be afraid of these men ? " 

“ No more than I am of you," Marius answered roughly, 
for he was beginning to notice that this policeman had not 
yet said " Sir/' 

The Inspector looked at Marius more intently still, and 
continued, with a sort of sententious solemnity, — 

“ You speak like a brave man, and like an honest man. 
Courage does not fear crime, nor honesty the authorities." 
Marius interrupted him, — 

“ That is all very well, but what do you intend doing ? 
Tlie Inspector restricted himself to saying, — 

“ The lodgers in that house have latch-keys to let them- 
selves in at night. You have one I Have you it about you ? 

“ Yes." 

“ Give it to me," the Inspector said. 

Marius took the key out of his waistcoat pocket, handed it 
to the Inspector, and added, — 

" If you take my advice you will bring a strong force.'* 
The Inspector gave Marius such a glance as Voltaire 
would have given a Provincial Academician who proposed 
to rhyme to him ; then he thrust both hands into his immense 
coat-pockets and produced two small steel pistols, of the 
sort called “ knock-me-down." He handed them to Marius, 
saying sharply, — 

" Take these. Go home. Conceal yourself in your room, 
and let them suppose you out. They are loaded. You will 



SOO LES HISBRABLES 

Tcatch, as you tell me there is a hole in the wall. People 
will arrive ; let them go on a little. When you fancy the 

matter ripe, and you think it time to stop it, you will fire a 

pistol, but not too soon. The rest concerns me. A shot in 
the air, in the ceiling, 1 don*t care where, — ^but mind, not too 
soon. Wait till they begin to put the screw on. You are a 
lawyer, and know what that means. There is not a mo- 
ment for any one to lose. What o'clock is it ? Half-past 
two. You said seven ? ” 

“ Siz oVlocIc," Marius corrected. 

“ I have time,'' the Inspector added ; “ but only just time. 

Do not forget anytliing I have said to you. A pistol-shot." 

“ All right," Marius replied. 

And as he put his hand on the latch to leave the room the 
Inspector shouted to him, — 

" By the way, if you should want me between this and then, 
come or send here. Ask for Inspector Javert." 

Time was slipping away, and every evening Marne Bougon, 
when she went to wash up dishes in town, was accustomed to 
close the gate, and, as Marius had given his latch-key to the 
Inspector, it was important that he should be in time. He 
therefore hurried to No. 60-52, and the gate was still open 
when he arrived. He went up the stairs on tip-toe, and glided 
along the passage-wall to his room. This passage was bor- 
dered on either side by rooms which were now to let, and 
Marne Bougon, as a general rule, left the doors open. While 
passing one of these doors, Marius fancied that he could see 
m the uninhabited room four men's heads vaguely fit up by a 
remnant of day-light which fell through a window. Marius 
did not attempt to see, as h^ did not wish to be seen hims^df ; 
and he managed to re-enter his room noiselessly and unseen. 
It was high time, for, a moment after, he heard Marne Bougon 
going out, and the house-gate shutting. 

Marius sat down on his bed : it might be about half-past 
five, and only half an hour separated him from what was aWtt 
to hapjjen. He was not frightened, but he could not think 
without a certain tremor of the things that were going to 
take place. There was a light in Jondrette's room, and Ma- 
rius could see the hole in the partition glowing with a ruddy 
bdiliancy that appeared to him the colour of blood. It was 
evident that this light could not be pri&gt;duoed by a candle. 



LES MISERABLES 


301 


There was no movement in the den, the silence was chilling and 
profound, and had it not been for the light, Marius might have 
fancied himself close to a grave. He gently took off his boots, 
and thrust them under the bed. Several minutes elapsed, 
and then Marius heard the house-gate creaking on it hinges, a 
heavy quick step ran up the stairs, and along the passage, 
it was Jondrette returned home. All at once several voices 
were raised, and it was plain that the whole family were at home. 

“ It is I," Jondv-tte said. 

“ Well ? " the wife asked.. 

** All is well,'' Jondrette answered. Then, lowering his 
voice, — 

“ The mousetrap is open, and the cats are here.'^ 

He again lowered his voice and said, — 

“ Put this in the fire.” 

Marius heard some charcoal bars stirred with a pair of iron- 
pincers, or some steel instrument, and Jondrette ask, — 

“ Have you tallowed the hinges of the door, so that they 
may make no noise ? ” 

” Yes,” the mother answered. 

* Has Marne Bougon gone 1 " 

Yes.” 

” Are you sure there is nobody in the neighbour's room ? 
He has not come in all day, and you know that this is his 
dinner horn.” 

‘‘ No matter,” Jondrette added, “ there is no harm in going 
to see whether he is in. Daughter, take the candle and go.” 

Marius .fell on his hands and knees, and silently crawled 
under the bed ; he had scarce done so ere he saw light through 
the cracks of his door. * 

” Papa,” a voice exclaimed, ” he is out.” 

He recognized the elder girl's voice. 

” Have you been in his room ? ** the father asked. 

No.” the girl replied, ” but as his key is in his door ho 
has gone out.” 

The father shouted — 

” Go in all the same." 

The door opened, and Marius saw the girl come in candle 
in hand. She walked straight up to the bed, and he suffered 
a moment of intense anxiety, but there was a looking-glass 
hanging from a nail by the bedside, and it was to that she pro- 



302 LES MISEBABLES 

oeeded. She smoothed her hair with her hand, and smiled in 
the glass. 

Still Marius trembled, for he thought that she could not 
help hearing his breathing. 

“ Well ? '' asked the lather, “ what are you doing there ! 

“ I am looking under the bed and the furniture/' she said, 
as she continued to smooth her hair ; “ but there is nobody." 

** You she-devil,” the father yelled. ” Come here directly, 
and lose no time.” 

She took a [larting glance at the glass and went off, closing 
the door after her. A moment later Marius heard the sound 
of the girl's naked feet pattering along the passage, and Jon- 
drette's voice shouting to them, — 

“ Pay attention ! one at the barri^re, and the other at the 
corner of the Rue du Petit Banquier. Do not lose the gate of 
this house out of sight, and if you see anything come back at 
once — at once — you have a key to let yourselves in. 

The elder daughter grumbled, — 

“ To stand sentry barefooted in the snow, what a treat ! " 

** To-morrow you shall have beetle-coloured silk boots,” the 
father said. 

They went down the stairs, and a few seconds later the 
sound of the gate closing below announced that they had 
reached the street. 


CHAPTER XIV 

Marius judged that the moment had arrived for him to 
return to his observatory. In a second, he was at the hole in 
the partition, and peeped through. The whole den was lit up 
with the ruddy glow of a brasier standing in the fire-place, and 
filled with incandescent charcoal. The burner ivas red, a bluish 
flame played round it, and rendered it easy to recognize the 
shape of the chisel purchased by Jondrettc, which was heating 
in the charcoal In a ct)rncr, near the door, could be seen two 
heaps, one apparently of old iron, the other of ropes, arranged 
for some anticipated purpose. The room, thus lit up, re- 
sembled a forge more than a mouth of Hades, but Jondrette, 
iu this light, was more like a demon than a blacksmith. 

Jondrette's den was admirably selected to serve as the 
scene of a violent and dark deed. It waa the furthest room in 



LES MISEBABLES 


SOS 


the most isolated house on the most deserted Parisian boule- 
vard. The whole length of a house and a number of un- 
inhabited rooms separated this lair from the boulevard, and 
the only window in it looked out on fields enclosed by walls 
and boardings. Jondrette had lit his pipe, was seated on the 
bottomless chair and smoking. 

All at once he raised his voice. 

“ By the way, in such weather as this he will come in a 
hackney coach. Light your lamp and go down, and keep be- 
hind the front gate ; when yt&gt;u hear the vehicle stop you will 
open the gate at, once, light him up-stairs, and along the pas- 
sage, and when he has come in here you will go down as quick- 
ly as you can, pay the coachman, and discharge him.'' 

“ Where's the money to come from ? " the woman asked. 

Jondrette felt in his pocket, and gave her five francs. 

** What is this ? " she exclaimed. 

“ The monarch which our neighbour gave us this morning ; ’* 
and he added, “ wo shall want two chairs, though." 

" What for 1 " 

" Why, to sit down." 

Marius shuddered on hearing the woman make the quiet 
answer, — 

“ Well, I will go and fetch our neighbour’s.” 

And with a rapid movement she opened the door and stepped 
into the passage. Marius had not really the time to get 
otT the drawers and hide under his bed. 

“ Take the candle," Jondrette shouted. 

" No," .she said, ** it would bother me, for I have two chairs 
to carry. Besides, the moon is^ shining." 

Marius heard the heavy hand of Mother Jondrette fumbling 
for Ins key in the darkness. The door opened, and the woman 
came in ; the skylight sent a moon-beam between two large 
patches of shade, and one of these patches entirely covered the 
wall against which Marius was standing, so that he disappeared. 
Mother Jondrette did not see him, took the two chairs, and 
went off, noisily slamming the door after her. She re-entered 
the den. 

Here are the two chairs." 

" And here is the lantern," the husband said, ‘‘ make haste 
down." 

He placed the chairs on either side of the table, turned the 



804 


LES MISEBABLES 


chisel in the chafing-dish, placed in front of the fire-place an 
old screen, which concealed the charcoal-pan, and then went to 
the corner where the heap of rope lay, and stooped down as if 
examining something. Marius then perceived that what he 
had taken for a shapeless heap was a rope ladder, very well 
made with wooden rungs, and two hooks to hang it by. This 
ladder and a few large tools, perfect crowbars, which were 
mingled with the heap of old iron in the corner, had not been 
there in the morning, and had evidently been brought in the 
afternoon, during the absence of Marius. 

“ They are locksmith^s tools,” Marius thought. 

There was in this room a hideous and menacing calm, and 
an expectation of something awful could be felt. Jondrette 
had let his pipe go out, a sign of deep thought, and had just 
sat down again. The candle caused the stern and fierce angles 
of his face to stand out ; he was frowning, and suddenly thrust 
out his right hand now and then, as if answering the final coun- 
sels of a dark internal soliloquy. In one of the obscure replies 
he made to himself he opened the table drawer, took out a long 
carving-knife hidden in it, and felt its edge on his thumb nail. 
This done, he put the knife in the drawer, which he closed 
again. Marius, on his side, drew the pistol from his pocket, 
and cocked it, which produced a sharp, clicking sound. Jon- 
drette started, and rose from his chair. 

“ Who's that ? ” he shouted. 

Marius held his breath. Jondrette listened for a moment, 
and then said, laughingly, — 

“ What an ass I am ! it is the partition creaking.” 

At this moment the distant and melancholy vibration of a 
bell shook the windows ; six o'clock was striking at St. Medard's. 
Jondrette marked each stroke by a shake of the head, and when 
he had counted the last he snufied the candle with his fingers. 
“ I only hope he'll come," he growled, and then returned to his 
cliair He was hardly seated ere the door opened. Mother 
Jondrette had opened it, and remained in the passage making 
a horrible grimace, which one of the holes of the dark lantern 
lit up from below. 

" Step in, sir," she said. 

** Enter, my benefactor ! ” Jondrette repeated, as he hur- 
riedly rose. 

M. Leblanc appeared with that air of serenity which rendered 



LES MISERABLES 


305 


him singularly venerable, and laid four louis on the table. 

** Monsieur Eabantou, We is the money for your rent, and 
something more to put you a little straight. After that we will 
see." 

“ May Heaven repay you ! my generous benefactor,” said 
Jondrette, and then rapidly approached his wife. 

“ Dismiss the hackney coach." 

She slipped away, while her husband made an infinitude of 
bows, and offered ^ chair to M. Leblanc. A moment after she 
returned, and whispered in •his ear, “All right!” 

M. Leblanc W9.S scarce seated ere Marius, raising his eyes, 
saw some one at the back of the room, whom he had not seen 
before. A man had just entered, but so softly that hinges had 
not been heard to creak. This man had on an old worn-out, 
torn violet knitted jacket, his neck was bare, his arms were 
naked and tattooed, and his face was daubed with black. He 
seated himself silently, and with folded arms, on the nearest bed, 
and, as he was behind Mother Jondrette, he could be but dimly 
distinguished. That sort of magnetic instinct which warns 
the eye caused M. Leblanc to turn almost at the same moment 
as Marius. He could not suppress a start of surprise, which 
Jondrette noticed. 

“ Ah, I see,” Jondrette exclaimed, as he buttoned his coat 
complacently, “ you are looking at your surtout ? It really fits 
me capitally.” 

“ Who is that man ? ” M. Leblanc asked. 

“ That ? ” said Jondrette, “ oh, a neighbour ; pay no atten- 
tion to him.” 

M. Leblanc’s whole person displayed a confident and intre- 
pid candour, as he continued,— 

“ I beg your pardon, M. Fabantou ? ” 

“ Dear protector,” Jondrette continued, as he placed his 
elbows on the table and gazed at M. Leblanc with eyes like 
those of a boa-constrictor, “ we have been obliged to sell every- 
thing, — everything but this picture.” 

There was a slight noise at the door ; a second man came 
in and seated himself on the bed behind Mother Jondrette. 

“ Take no heed,” said Jondrette, “ they are men living in 
the house. I was saying that I had a valuable picture left ; 
look here, sir.” 

He rose, walked to the wail, against which the panel to 



806 


LES MISERABLES 


which we have already referred was leaning, and turned it 
round, while still letting it rest on the wall. It was some- 
thing, in fact, that resembled a picture, and which the candle 
almost illumined. Marius could distinguish nothing, but he 
fancied he could catch a glimpse of a coarse daub, and a sort 
of principal character standing out of the canvas. 

“A master-piece, a most valuable picture, my benefactor I 
I am as much attached to it as I am to my daughters, for it 
recalls dear memories ; but, as I told you, and I will not go 
back from my word, I am willing«to dispose of it, as we are in 
such poverty.” 

Either by accident, or some vague feeling of anxiety, M. 
Leblanc's eye, while examining the picture, returned to the 
end of the room. There were now four men there, all four 
bare-armed, motionless, and with blackened faces. Jondrette 
remarked that M. Leblanc's eyes rested on these men. 

“ They are neighbours,” he said, “ their faces are black be- 
cause they are chimney-sweeps. Do not trouble yourself 
about them, sir, but buy my picture. What value do you set 
upon it 1 '' 

“ Well," M. Leblanc said, looking Jondrette full in the 
face, like a man setting himself on guard, ” it is some pot-house 
sign, and worth about three francs." 

Jondrette replied gently, — 

“ Have you your pocket-book about you ? I shall be satis- 
fied with a thousand crowns.” 

M. Leblanc rose, set his back against the wall, and took a 
hurried glance round the room. He had Jondrette on his left 
by the window, and on his right the woman and the four men 
by the door. The four men md not stir, and did not even ap- 
pear to see him. 

" If you do not buy my picture, dear benefactor," Jon- 
drette said, ” I have no resource remaining, but to throw my- 
self into the river. The other day I went for that purpose 
down three steps by the side of the bridge of Austerlitz." 
All at once his eyes glistened with a hideous radiance, the 
little man drew himself up and became frightful, he walked a 
step toward M. Leblanc, and shouted in a thundering voice, — 

" That is not the point ! Do you recognize me ? " 

The attic door was torn open, and three men in blue cloth 
blouses, and vrearing masks of black paper, came in. The first 



LES MISERABLES 


807 


was thin, and carried an iron-shod cudgel; the second, a 
species of Colossus, held a pole-axe by the middle, wrhile the 
third, a broad-shouldered fellow, was armed with an enormous 
key stolen from some prison-gate. It seemed as if Jondrette 
had been awaiting the arrival of these men, and a hurried con- 
versation took place between him and the man with the cudgel. 
‘‘ Is the trap ready ? ” 

“ Yes." 

With two good horses 1 
“ Excellent." ’ 

“ All right," said Jondrette. 

M. Leblanc was very pale. He looked all round the room 
like a man who understands into what a snare he has fallen. 
He had formed an improvised bulwark of the table, and this 
man, who a moment before merely looked like an old man, 
had suddenly become an athlete, and laid his robust fist on 
the back of his chair with a formidable gesture. 

Three of the men posted themselves in front of the door, 
without saying a word. Marius thought that the moment for 
interference was at hand, and raised his right hand to the 
ceiling in the direction of the passage, ready to fire his pistol. 
Jondrette, after finishing his colloquy with the three men, 
turned again to M. Leblanc, and repeated the question, with 
that low, terrible laugh of his, — 

“ Do you not recognize me 1 ” 

M. Leblanc looked him in the face and answered, “ No ! " 
Jondrette then went up to the table, he bent over the 
candle with folded arms, and placed his angular and ferocious 
face as close as he could to M. Leblanc's placid face, and in 
this posture of a wild beast wllich is going to bite, he ex- 
claimed, — 

“ My name is not Pabantou or Jondrette, but my name is 
Thenardier, the landlord of the inn at Montfermeil ! Do you 
hear me ? Thenardier. Now do you recognize me ? " 

An almost imperceptible flush shot athwart M. Leblanc^s 
forehead, and ho answered, with his ordinary placidity, and 
without the slightest tremor in his voice, — 

** No more than before." 

Marius did not hear this answer. At the moment when 
Jondrette said, My name is Thenardier ^ he trembled in all his 
limbs, and leant against the wall, as if he felt a cold sword- 



310 


LES MISERABLES 


ing an unarmed man. M. Leblanc took advantage of an oppoiv 
tunity, when Thenardier's back was momentarily turned, upset 
the chair with his foot, the table with his fist, and with one 
bound was at the window. He was half out when six power- 
ful hands seized him and dragged him back into the room. The 
three “ chimney sweeps ” had rushed upon him, and at 
the same time Mother Thenard’er seized him by the hair. Other 
bandits ran in from the passage, and an old man on the bed, 
who seemed the worse for liquor, came up tottering with a 
road-mender's hammer in his hand. One of the sweeps, in 
whom Marius recognized, in spite of the blaclvening, Panchaud 
alias Printanier, alias Bigrenaille, raised above M. Leblanc's 
head a species of life-preserver, made of two lumps of lead at 
the ends of an iron bar. Marius could not resist this sight. 
“ My father," he thought, “ forgive me ! " and his finger 
sought the trigger. He was on the point of firing, when Th6- 
nardier cried, — 

“ Do not hurt him.” 

A herculean struggle now commenced. With one blow of 
his fist in the chest M. Leblanc sent the old man rolling in the 
middle of the room, and then with two back-handers knocked 
down two other assailants, and held one under each of his 
knees. The villains groaned imder this pressure as under a 
granite mill-stone, but the four others had seized the formida- 
ble old man by the arms and neck, and were holding him down 
upon the two “ sw^eeps." Thus, M. Leblanc disappeared be- 
neath this horrible group of bandits, like a boar attacked by 
a howling pack of dogs. They succeeded in throwing him on 
to the bed nearest the window, and held him down. 

“ You fellows," Thenardief exclaimed, “ can search him/^ 

M. Leblanc appeared to have given up all thought of resis- 
tance, and they searched him. He had nothing about him 
but a leathern purse containing six francs and his handkerchief. 
Thenardier put the latter in his own pocket. 

“ What ! no pocket-book ? ” he asked. 

No, and no watch," one of the sweeps replied. 

Thenardier went to the corner near the door, and took up 
some ropes, which he threw to them. 

“ Fasten him to the foot of the bed,” he said. 

The bandits tied him firmly in an upright posture to the 
end of the bed, furthest from the window and nearest the 



LES MISERABLES Sll 

chimney-piece. When the last knot was tied Th4nardier took 
a chair and sat down almost facing the prisoner. He was no 
longer the same man ; in a few minutes his countenance had 
passed from frenzied violence to tranquil^and cunning gentleness. 

Sir," said Thenardier, “ you did wrong to try and jump out 
of the window, for you might have broken a leg. Now, with 
your permission, we will talk quietly ; and, in the first place, I 
will communicate to you a thing I have noticed, that you have 
not yet uttered the slightest cry. Good heavens I you might 
have tried to call for help, and I should not have thought it im- 
proper. This room is very dhaf, it has only that in its favour, 
you might explode a bombshell here, and it would not produce 
the effect of a drunkard's snore at the nearest post. But still 
you did not cry out ; I compliment you on it, and will tell you 
what conclusion I draw from the fact. My dear sir, when a 
man cries for help, who come ? the police ; and after the police ? 
justice. The fact is — and I have suspected it for some time — 
that you have some interest in hiding something ; for our part, 
we have the same interest, and so we may be able to come to 
an understanding. So let us settle this amicably. I did wrong 
to let my temper carry me away just now. I told you that 
I insisted on money, a great deal of money, and that was not 
reasonable. Good heavens I you may be rich, but you have 
burthens, for who is there that has not ? I do not wish to ruin 
you. Come, I will make a sacrifice on my side, and be satisfied 
with two hundred thousand francs." 

M. Leblanc did not utter a syllable, and so Th6nardier 
continued — 

“ Two hundred thousand francs, not a sou less ; once that 
trifle has come out of your pocket I will guarantee that you have 
nothing more to apprehend. You will say, “ But I have not 
two hundred thousand francs about me.’ Oh, I am not ex- 
orbitant, and I do not insist on that. I only ask one thing of 
you : be good enough to write what I shall dictate.’* 

Th6nardier pushed the table close up to M. Leblanc, and 
took pen, ink, and paper out of the drawer, which he left half 
open, and in which the long knife-blade flashed. He laid the 
sheet of paper before M. Leblanc. 

“ Write ! " he said. 

The prisoner at last spoke. 

" How can you expect me to write I My arms are tied.** 



312 


LES MISEBABLES 


“ That is true, I beg your pardon,” said Th6nardier, ” you 
are quite right ; ” and turning to Bigrenaille, he added, “ Un- 
fasten the gentleman's right arm.” 

When the prisoner's hand was free, Th6nardier dipped the 
pen in the ink and handed it to him. 

” Make up your mind, sir, that you are in our absolute 
power, and we should really be sorry to be forced to proceed 
to disagreeable extremities. I know neither your name nor 
your address, but I warn you that you will remain tied up 
here until the person commissioned to deliver the letter you are 
going to write has returned. Now be good enough to write.” 

Thenardier began dictation : “ My dear daughter.” 

The prisoner started, and raised his eyes to Thenardier, 
who went on, — 

” Come to mo at once, for I want you particularly. The 
person who delivers this letter to you has instructions to bring 
you to me. I am waiting. Come in perfect confidence.” 

M. Leblanc wrote this down, and Thenardier resumed, — 
” By the way, efface that ‘ Come in f effect confidence* for it 
might lead to a supposition that the afiair is not perfectly sim- 
ple, and create distrust.” 

M. Leblanc erased the words. 

“ Now,” Thenardier added, “ sign it. What is your name ? ” 

The prisoner laid down the pen, and asked, — 

” For whom is this letter ? ” 

” You know very well,” Thenardier answered ; “ for the 
little one — the Lark — have just told you so. But now sign 
it ; what is your name ? ” 

“ Urbain Fabre,” said the prisoner. 

Thenardier, with the movement of a cat, thrust his hand 
into his pocket and drew out the handkerchief found on M. 
Leblanc. He sought for the mark, and held it to the candle. 

“ U. F., all right, Urbain Fabre. Well sign it U.F.” 

The prisoner did so. 

” As two hands are needed to fold a letter, give it to me 
and I will do so.” 

This done, Thenardier added, — 

“ Write the address to Mademoisdle Fabre, at your house. 
I know that you live somewhere near here in the neighbour- 
hood of St Jacques du Haut-pas, as you attend Mass there 
every day, but 1 do not know in what street. I see that you 



LES MISEBABLES 


313 


understand your situation, and as you have not told a falsehood 
about your name you will not do so about your address. 
Write it yourself." 

The prisoner remained pensive for a moment, and then took 
up the pen and wrote, — 

“ Mademoiselle Fabre, at M. Urbain Fabre'a, No. 17, Rue 
St. Dominique d'Enfer." 

Thenardier seized the letter with a sort of feverish convulsion. 

“ Wife," he shouted, " here is the letter, and you know 
what you have to do. Therens a hackney coach down below, 
80 be off at once. . Then he turned to the man with the pole- 
axe, and said, ** As you have taken off your false nose, you can 
accompany her. Get up behind the coach. You know where 
you left it ? " 

“ Yes," said the man, and depositing the axe in a corner, 
he followed the woman. 

A minute had not elapsed when the crack of a whip could 
be heard rapidly retiring. 

Only five bandits remained in the den with Thenardier and 
the prisoner. These men, through the masks or soot that 
covered their faces, had a heavy, dull look, and it was plain 
that they performed a crime like a job, tranquilly, without pas- 
sion or pity. They were heaped up in a corner like brutes, and 
were silent. Thenardier was warming his feet, and the pri- 
soner had fallen back into his taciturnity ; a sinister calmness 
had succeeded the formidable noise which had filled the garret 
a few momenta previously. Marius was waiting in a state of 
anxiety, which everything tended to augment. The enigma 
was more impenetrable than everj who was this “ little one," 
whom Thenardier had also called the “ Lark," — was she “ his 
Ursule ? " A sort of frightful fascination kept him nailed to 
the spot, whence he surveyed and commanded the whole scene. 

Nearly half an hour passed in this way ; Thenardier seemed 
absorbed in dark thoughts, and the prisoner did not stir. Still 
Marius fancied that he could hear at intervals a low, dull 
sound in the direction of the prisoner. All at once Thenardier 
addressed his victim. 

" By the way, M. Fabre," he said, " I may as well tell you 
something at once." 

As these few words seemed the commencement of an ex- 
planation. Maxius listened carefully. Thenardier continued. 



314 


LES MISERABLES 


“ Mj wife will be back soon, so do not be impatient, I 
believe that the Lark is really your daughter, and think it very 
simple that you should keep her, but listen to me for a moment. 
My wife will go to her with your letter, and I told Madame 
Th6nardier to dress herself in the way you saw, that your 
young lady might make no difficulty about following her ; she 
will be taken to a place where she will be all safe, and so soon 
as you have handed mo the trifle of two hundred thousand 
franca she will be restored to you. If you have me arrested, 
my pal will settle the Lark, thut's all/' 

He stopped, but the prisoner did not interrupt the silence, 
and Thenardier added, — 

“ So soon as my wife has returned and said to me, ‘ The 
Lark is under weigh,' we will release you, and you can sleep at 
home if you like. You see that we have no ill intentions.'* 
Frightful images passed across the mind of Marius. What I 
they were not going to bring the girl here ! Marius felt the 
beating of his heart stop : what should he do ? Fire the pistol 
and deliver all these villains into the hands of justice ? But 
the hideous man with the pole-axe could not be the less out of 
reach with the girl, and Marius thought of Th6nardier'a words, 
whose sanguinary meaning he could read , — If you have me 
arrested^ my 'pal will settle the Lark. The frightful situation, 
which had already lasted above an hour, changed its aspect at 
every moment, and Marius had the strength to review in turn 
all the most frightful conjectures, w^hile seeking a hope and 
finding none. In the midst of this silence, the sound of the 
staircase door being opened and shut became audible. The 
prisoner gave a start in his bonds. 

Here's my wife," said thenardier. 

He had scarce finished speaking when Mother Thenardier 
rushed into the room, red, out of breath, and with flashing eyes, 
and shouted as she struck her thighs with her two big hands, — 
" A false address. No Monsieur Urbain Fabre known at 
No. 17, Rue St. Dominique. They never heard of him. 
Monsieur Thenardier, that old cove has made a fool of you." 

Marius breathed again, for She — Ursule, or the Lark — waa 
saved. While the exasperated woman was vociferating 
Thenardier sat down at the table, and said to the prisoner 
slowly, and with a peculiarly ferocious accent, — 

" A false address ? why, what did you expect ? " 



LES MISERABLES 


315 


“ To gain time ! ” the prisoner thundered. 

And at the same moment he shook ofE his bonds, which 
were cut through : the prisoner was only fastened to the bed 
by one leg. Ere the seven men had time to look about them, 
he had stretched out his hand towards the fire-place, and the 
Thenardiers and the brigands, driven back by surprise, saw 
him almost free, and in a formidable attitude, waving round 
his head the red-hot chisel, from which a sinister glare shot. 

In the judicial inquiry that followed this affair it was 
stated that a large* sou, cut and worked in a peculiar manner, 
was found in the garret. It was one of those marvels of in- 
dustry which the patience of the bagne engenders in the dark- 
ness. The wretch who aspires to deliverance, finds means, 
without tools, or, at the most, with an old knife, to saw a sou 
in two, hollow out the two parts without injuring the dies, 
and form a thread in the edge of the sou, so that the sou may 
be reproduced. It screws and unscrews at pleasure, and is a 
box ; and in this box a watch-spring saw is concealed, which, 
if well managed, will cut through fetters and iron bars. It is 
probable that at the moment when the bandits searched the 
prisoner he had the double sou about him, and hid it in his 
palm ; and his right hand being at liberty afterwards, he un- 
screwed it, and employed the saw to cut the ropes. As, how- 
ever, he was unable to stoop down for fear of betraying him- 
self, he had not cut the cord on his left leg. The bandits 
gradually recovered from their surpriae.^^ 

“ Be easy,^* said Bigrenaille to Thenardier, “ he is still held 
by one leg, and will not fly away. I put the pack-thread round 
that paw’.'* 

Here the prisoner raised his ^oico, — 

“ You are villains, but my life is not worth so much trouble 
to defend. As for imagining that with your heated irons 
you could make me speak or write what I do not wish, — 

He pulled up the sleeve of his left arm and added, — 

‘‘ Look here ! " 

At the same time he stretched out his arm, and placed on 
the naked flesh the red-hot chisel, which he held in his right 
hand by the wooden handle. Then could be heard the friz- 
sling of the burnt flesh, and the smell peculiar to torture-rooms 
spread through the garret. Marius tottered in horror, and the 
brigands themselves shuddered — ^but the face of the strange 



316 


LES MISERABLES 


old man was scarce contracted, and while the red-hot steel was 
burying itself in the smoking wound, — he impassive and almost 
august — hxed on Thenardier his beautiful glance, in which 
there was no hatred, and in which sufEering disappeared in a 
serene majesty. 

** Villains," he said, “ be no more frightened of me than I 
am of you." 

And, tearing the chisel out of the wound, he hurled it through 
the window, which had been left open. The horrible red-hot 
tool whirled through the night, and fell some distance off in the 
snow, which hissed at the contact. The prisoner continued, — 

“ Do to me what you like." 

He was defenceless. 

“ Seize him," said Thenardier. 

Two of the brigands laid their hands on his shoulders, and 
a masked man stood in front of him, ready to dash out his 
brains with a blow of the key at the slightest movement on his 
part. At the same time Marius heard below him, but so close 
that he could not see the speakers, the following remarks ex- 
changed in a low voice, — 

There is only one thing to be done." 

•* Cut his throat ! " 

Exactly." 

It was the husband and wife holding council, and then 
Thenardier walked slowly to the table, opened the drawer and 
took out the knife. Marius clutched the handle of the pistol 
in a state of extraordinary perplexity. For above an hour he 
had heard two voices in his conscience, one telling him to re- 
spect his father's will, while the other cried to him to succour 
the prisoner. He had vaguely hoped up to this moment to find 
some mode of reconciling these two duties, but nothing possible 
had occurred to him. Still the peril pressed ; for Thenardier, 
knife in hand, was reflecting a few paces from the prisoner. 
Marius looked wildly around him, which is the last mechanical 
resource of despair. All at once he started ; at his feet on his 
table a bright moon-beam lit up and seemed to point out to 
him a sheet of paper. On this sheet he read this line, written 
in large letters that very morning by the elder of Thenardier's 
daughters, — 


Herb are the Slops." 



LES MISERABLES 


317 


An idea, a flash, crossed Marius's mind ; this was the solution 
of the frightful problem that tortured him, sparing the assassin 
and saving the victim. He knelt down on the chest of drawers, 
stretched forth his arm, seized the paper, softly detached a 
lump of plaster from the partition, wrapped it up in the paper, 
and threw it through the hole into the middle of the den. It was 
high time, for Thenardier had overcome his last fears, or his 
last scruples, and was going towards the prisoner. 

“ There's something falling,” his wife cried. 

The woman bounded forward, and picked up the lump of 
plaster wrapped in paper, which she handed to her husband. 

“ How did it get there ? ” Thdnardier asked. 

‘‘ Why, hang it,” his wife asked, “ how do you expect that 
it did ? through the window of course.” 

Thenardier rapidly unfolded the paper, and held it close to 
the candle. 

“ Eponine's handwriting, — ^the devil ! ” 

He made a signal to his wife, who hurried up to him, and 
showed her the line written on the paper, then added in a 
hollow voice, — 

” Quick, the ladder ! we must leave the bacon in the trap.” 

•• Which way ? ” Bigrenaille remarked. 

By the window,” Thenardier replied ; “ as Ponine threw 
the stone through the window, that's a proof that the house is 
not beset on that side.” 

The brigands who held the prisoner let him go, and in a 
twinkling the rope ladder was dropped out of the window and 
securely fastened to the sill by the two iron hooks. So soon 
as the ladder was fixed Thenardier cried, — 

” The lady first.” 

And he dashed at the window, but as he was stepping out, 
Bigrenaille roughly seized him by the collar, 

“ No, no, my old joker, after us I ” he said. 

You are children,” said Thenardier, ” we are losing time, 
and the police are at our heels.” 

'' Very well then,” said one of the bandits, “ let us draw lots 
as to who shall go first,” 

Thenardier exclaimed, — 

“ Are you mad t draw lots, eh ? with a wet finger 1 a short 
etraw 1 write our names and put them in a cap — ? ” 

May I offer my hat ? ” a voice said at the door. 



818 LES MISERABLES 

All turned ; it was Javeit, who held his hat in his hand and 
offered it smilingly. 

The startled bandits dashed at the weapons, which they had 
thrown into corners at the moment of their attempted escape ; 
and in leas than a second, these seven men were grouped in a 
posture of defence, one with his pole-axe, another with his key, 
a third with his life-preserver, the others with chisel, pincers, 
and hammer, and Thenardier with his knife in his &amp;t. The 
woman picked up an enormous paving-stone which lay in the 
corner of the room, and served ter daughter as a footrstool. 
Javert restored his hat to his head, and walked into the room, 
with folded arms, his cane hanging from his wrist, and his 
sword in his scabbard. 

‘‘ Halt ! " he shouted, you will not leave by the window, 
but by the door. You are seven, and we are fifteen, so do not 
let us quarrel, but behave as gentlemen.” 

Bigrenaille drew a pistol from under his blouse, and placed 
it in Thenardier's hand, as he whispered, — 

“ It is Javert, and I dare not fire at that man. Dare you ? 

** I should think so,” Thenardier answered. 

Thenardier took the pistol and aimed at Javert ; the In- 
spector, who was only three paces from him, looked at him 
fcedly, and contented himself with saying, — 

“ Don't fire, for the pistol won't go off.” 

Thenardier pulled the trigger, there was a flash in the pan. 

Did I not tell you so ? ” Javert remarked. 

Bigrenaille threw his life-preserver at Javert's feet. 

” You are the Emperor of the devils, and I surrender,” he 
exclaimed. ” I only ask one thing, that my 'baccy mayn't be 
stopped while I'm in solitary confinement.” 

“ Granted,” said Javert. 

Then he turned and shouted, “ You can come in now,” 

A squad of police, sword in hand, and agents armed with 
bludgeons and sticks, rushed in at Javert's summons and 
bound the robbers. This crowd of men, scarce illumined by 
the candle, filled the den with shadows. 

“Handcuff them all,” Javert cried. 

At this moment he noticed the prisoner, who had not said 
a word since the arrival of the police, and held his head down. 

“ Untie the gentleman,” said Javert, ” and let no one leave 
the room. 



LES MISEBABLES 


319 


After saying this he sat down in a lordly way at the table, 
on which the candle and the ink-stand were still standing, took 
a stamped paper from his pocket, and began writing his report. 
When he had written a few lines, which arc always the same 
formula, he raised his eyes. 

“ Bring the gentleman here whom these gentlemen had tied 
up.” 

The agents looked around. 

‘‘ Well,” Javert asked, ‘‘ where is he ? ” 

The prisoner had "disappeared. The door was guarded, but 
the window was not. So soon as he found himself released 
and while Javert was writing, he took advantage of the tumult, 
the crowd, the darkness, to rush to the window. An agent 
ran up and looked out ; he could see nobody, but the rope-lad- 
der was still trembling. 

” The devil I ” said Javert between his teeth, “ he must 
have been the best of the lot.” 

On the day after that in which these events occurred in the 
house on the Boulevard de THopital, a lad was trudging along 
the right-hand walk in the direction of the Barriere de Fon- 
tainebleau, at about nightfall. This boy was pale, thin, 
dressed in rags, wearing canvas trowsers in the month of Feb- 
ruary, and singing at the top of his lungs. 

He reached No. 50-52, and finding the gate closed, he began 
giving it re-echoing kicks, which indicated rather the shoes 
of the man which he wore than the feet of the boy which he 
had. An old woman, Madame Bougon, ran up after him, utter- 
ing shouts, and making the most extraordinary gestures. 

” What"§ the matter ? what's the matter ? 0 Lord, the 
house is being broken into.” 

”A11 at once she stopped, for she had recognized the 
gamin. 

“ Why, it is that Satan ! There's nobody here, scamp. 

“ Where's father ? ” 

** At La Force. 

" Hilloh ! and mother ! 

** At Saint Lazare.” 

Very fine ! and my sisters ? 

” At the Madelonnettes.” 

Then he turned on his heels, and a moment later the old woman 
who was standing in the gateway, heard him singing in his 



320 


LES MISEBABLES 


cleax young voice, as he went o£E under the elms which were 
quivering in the winter breeze, — 

** Le Koi Coup de sabot 
S’en allait h la chasse, 

A la chasse aux corbeaux* 

Mont4 BUT des ^ch;bsscs, 

Quand on passait dcssou 
On lui pajait deux sous." 

CHAPTER XV . 

Marius witnessed the unexpected denouement of the snare 
upon whose track he had placed Javert,' but the Inspector 
had scarce left the house, taking his prisoners with him in 
three hackney coaches, ere Marius stepped out of the house 
in his turn. It was only nine in the evening, and Marius 
went to call on Courfeyrac, who was no longer the imperturb- 
able inhabitant of the Pays Latin. He had gone to live in 
the Rue de la Verrifere, for political reasons,” and this district 
was one of those in which insurrectionists of the day were 
fond of installing themselves. Marius said to Courfeyrac, 
I am going to sleep here,” and Courfeyrac pulled off one of 
his two mattresses, laid it on the ground, and said, ‘‘ There you 
are ! ” At seven o'clock the next morning Marius returned 
to No. 60-52, paid his quarter's rent, and what he owed to 
Marne Bougon, had his books, bed, table, chest of drawers, 
and two chairs, placed on a truck, and went away, without 
leaving his address, so that, when Javert returned in the 
morning to question Marius about the event of the previous 
evening, he only found Marne Bougon, who said to him, — 
Gone away.” Marne Bbugon was convinced that Marius 
was in some way an accomplice of the robbers arrested the 
previous evening. WTio would have thought it ! ” she ex- 
claimed to the porteresses of the quarter, a young man whom 
you might have taken for a girl ! ” 

&gt; Marius's reason for moving so promptly, was that he did 
not wish to figure at the trial which would in all probability 
ensue, and be obliged to give evidence against Th6nardier. 
Javert believed that the young man, whose name he forgot, 
had been frightened, and had run away, or else had not even 
returned home ; he made some efforts, however, to find him, 
which were unsuccessful. A month elapsed, then another. 



LES MISERABLES 


S21 


Marius was still living with Courfeyrac, and had learned from 
a young barrister, an habitual walker of the Salle des Pas Per- 
dus, that Thenardier was in solitary confinement, and every 
Monday he left a five-franc piece for him at the wicket of 
Fa Lorce. Marius, having no money left, borrowed the five 
francs of Courfeyrac ; it was the first time in his life that he 
borrowed money. 

Marius, however, was heart-broken, for everything had dis- 
appeared again under a trap-door. He had seen again 
momentarily the girl whom Jie loved, and the old man who 
appeared her father. He no longer knew the name of which 
he had felt so certain, and it certainly was not Ursule, and 
the Lark was a nick-name *, and then, what must he think of the 
old man ? Did he really hide himself from the police ? The 
white-haired workman whom Marius had met in the vicinity 
of the Invalides reverted to his mind, and it now became 
probable that this workman and M. Leblanc were one and the 
same. He disguised himself then, and this man had his heroic 
side and his equivocal side. Why did he not call for help ? 
why did he fly I was he the father of the girl ? and was he 
really the man whom Thenardier fancied he recognized I 
These were all so many insoluble problems. All this, it is true, 
in no way lessened the angelic charm of the maiden of the 
Luxembourg, and hence arose the poignant distress. Marius 
had a passion in his heart, and night over his eyes. He was 
impelled, he was attracted, he could not stir ; all had vanished, 
except love, and he had lost the sudden instincts and illumina- 
tions of even that love. 

Javert's* triumph at the Maison Gorbeau had seemed com- 
plete, but was not so. In the first |)lace, and that was his chief 
anxiety, Javert had not been able to make a prisoner of the 
prisoner : the assassinated man who escapes is more suspicious 
than the assassin, and it was probable that this man who es- 
caped, though a precious capture for the bandits, might be 
equally so for the authorities. Next, Montparnasse, who was 
to have played his part in the affair of that night, had slipped 
out of Javert’s clutches, Montparnasse, in fact, having met 
Eponine on the boulevard, keeping watch, went off with her, 
preferring to play the Nemorino with the daughter rather 
than Schinderhannes with the father, and it was lucky for him 
that he did so, as he was now free. Javert afterwards ^‘nailed 

L 



323 


LES MISEBABLES 


Eponine, but as there was no charge against her, she was soon 
allowed to go. Lastly, in the drive from No. 50-52 to La 
Force, one of the chief men arrested, Claquesous, had disap- 
peared ; no one knew how he did it, and the sergeants and 
agents did not at all understand it : no one could say anything 
except that on reaching the prison there was no Claquesous. 
Had this Sphynx its front paws in crimes, and its hind paws 
in the police ? Javert did not accept these combinations, and 
struggled against such compromises ; but his squad contained 
other inspectors besides himself, end, though his subordinates, 
perhaps more thoroughly initiated in the secrets of the Prefec- 
ture, and Claquesous was such a villain that lie might be a very 
excellent agent. However this might be, Claquesous was lost, 
and Javert seemed more irritated than surprised. As for 
Marius, “ that scrub of a barrister," whose name he had for- 
gotten, Javert did not trouble himself much about him, and 
besides, a barrister can always be found. But was he only a 
barrister 1 

Marius no longer called on any one, but at times he came 
across Father Maboeuf. The Flora of Cauteretz did not sell 
at all now, and the indigo experiments had not been successful 
in the little garden of Austerlitz, which looked in a bad direc- 
tion. M. Maboeuf could only cultivate in it a few rare plants 
which are fond of moisture and shade. For all that, though, he 
was not discouraged : he had obtained a strip of ground at the 
Jardin des Plantes, on which to carry on his experiments “ at 
his own charge." To do this he pledged the plates of his Flora 
and he reduced his breakfast to two eggs, of which he left one 
for his old servant, whose wages he had not paid for fifteen 
months past. And very frequently his breakfast was his sole 
meal. He no longer laughed with his childish laugh, he had 
grown morose, and declined to receive visitors, and Marius did 
well not to call on him. At times, at the hour when M. Maboeuf 
proceeded to the Jardin des Plantes, the old man and the young 
man passed each other on the Boulevard de THopital ; they did 
not speak, and merely shook their heads sorrowfully. It is a 
sad thing that the moment arrives when misery parts friends. 

M. Maboeuf at this period was close on eighty years of age. 

One evening he had a strange apparition. He had returned 
home while it was still daylight, and found that Mother Plu- 
tarch, whose health was not so good as it might be, had gone 



LES MISERABLES 


823 


to bed. He dined upon a bone on which a little meat remained 
and a lump of bread which he had found on the kitchen table, 
and was seated on a stone post which acted as a bench in his 
garden. M. Maboeuf was reading, with the help of his spec- 
tacles, a book in which he took great interest, for his natural 
timidity rendered him prone to accept superstitions. This 
book was the celebrated treatise of President Delancre, On 
the Inconstancy of Delusions.'* While reading M. Maboeuf 
looked over the book, which he held in his hand, at his plants, 
and among others at a magnificent rhododendron, which was 
one of his consolations. Four days of wind and sun had 
passed without a drop of rain, the stems were bending, the 
buds drooping, the leaves falling, and they all required water- 
ing ; this rhododendron especially looked in a very sad 
way. M. Mabceuf was one of those men for whom 
plants have souls ; he had been at work all day in his indigo 
patch, and was worn out with fatigue, but for all that he rose, 
laid his book on the bench, and walked in a bent posture, and 
with tottering steps, up to the well. But when he seized the 
chain he had not sufficient strength to unhook it ; he then 
turned and took a glance of agony at the sky, which was ght- 
tering with stars. The night promised to be as dry as the day 
had been. 

“ Stars everywhere ! " the old man thought, “ not the small- 
est cloud ! not a drop of water ! " 

He tried once again to unhook the well-chain, but could not 
succeed ; at this moment he heard a voice, saying, — 

“ Father Maboeuf, shall I water the garden for you ? " At 
the same time a sound like that of a wild beast breaking 
through was heard in the hedge, “and he saw a tall thin girl 
emerge, who stood before him looking at him boldly. She 
looked less like a human being than some form engendered of 
the darkness. Ere Father Maboeuf found time to answer a 
syllable, this creature, whose movements had in the gloom a 
sort of strange suddenness, had unhooked the chain, let down 
and drawn up the bucket, and filled the watering-pot ; and the 
old gentleman saw this apparition, which was bare-footed and 
wore a ragged skirt, running along the flower-beds and dis- 
tributing life around her. The sound of the water patter- 
ing on the leaves filled M. Maboeuf s soul with ravishment, and 
the rhododendron now seemed to him to be happy. The first 



324 


LES MISEBABLES 


bucket emptied, the girl drew a second, then a third, and 
watered the whole garden. When she had finished, Father 
Maboeuf went up to her with tears in his eyes, and laid his hand 
on her forehead. 

“ God will bless you,” he said “ you are an angel, since you 
take care of flowers. What a pity that I am so unhappy and 
so poor, and can do nothing for you I ” 

“ You can do something,” she said. “ Tell me where M. 
Marius lives.” 

The old man did not understand. He raised his glassy 
eyes, and seemed seeking something which had vanished. 

“ A young man who used to come here.” 

“ Ah, yes,” he exclaimed, “ I know whom you mean. Wait 
a minute ? Monsieur Marius, Baron Marius Pontmercy, par- 
dieu ! lives, or rather he does not live well, I do not know.^' 

While speaking, he had stooped to straighten a rhododen- 
dron branch, and continued, — 

“ Ah yes, I remember now. He passes very frequently along 
the boulevard, and goes in the direction of the Lark's Field 
in the Bue Croule Barbe. Look for him there, he will not be 
difficult to find.” 

When M. Maboeuf raised his head again, he was alone, and 
the girl had disappeared. He was decidedly a little frightened. 

“ Beally,” he thought, “ if my garden were not watered, I 
should fancy that it was a ghost.” 

A few days after this visit of a ghost to Father Maboeuf— 
it was on a Monday, the day of the five-franc piece which 
Marius borrowed of Courfeyrac for Thenardier, Marius placed 
the coin in his pocket, and before carrying it to the prison, 
resolved to “ take a little walk,” hoping that on his return this 
would make him work. As soon as he rose, he sat down before 
a book and paper to set about some translation, and his job 
at this time was the translation into French of a celebrated 
German quarrel, the controversy between Gans and Savigny. 
He took up Gans, he took up Savigny, read four pages, tried to 
write one, but could not, and got up from his chair, saying, ‘‘ I 
wiQ go out, that will put me in the humour ;” and he proceeded 
to the Lark's Field, the mere name of which attracted him, 
because it reminded him of her whom he no longer saw, and 
he lived in it more than at Courfeyrac's lodging. On this 
morning the merry sunbeams were flashing through the ex- 



LES MISEBABLES 


325 


panded and luminous leaves. He thought of “ Her," and his 
reverie, becoming a reproach, fell back on himself ; he thought 
bitterly of the indolence and mental paralysis which were gain- 
ing on him, and of the night which constantly grew denser 
before him, so that he could no longer even see the sun. All 
at once he heard amid his poignant ecstasy a familiar voice 
saying, — 

“ Ah ! here ho is ! " 

He raised his eyes and recognized the unhappy girl who 
had come to him ofte morning,, Eponine, the elder of Thenar- 
dier's daughters. She had stopped in front of Marius with a 
little joy on her livid face, and something like a smile, and it 
was some minutes ere she could speak. 

“ I have found you ! " she said at last. “ FatJier Maboeuf 
was right. Oh, how I have looked for you the last six weeks ! 
So you no longer live down there ? " 

“ No," said Marius. 

“ Ah, I understand, on account of that thing. Hilloh, why 
do you wear an old hat like that ? A young man like you 
ought to be handsomely dressed. M. Maboeuf calls you Baron 
Marius — forget what ; but you are not a Baron, are yon ? 
Barons are old swells, who walk in front of the Luxembourg 
Palace, where there is the most sun, and read the Quotidienne 
for a sou. Tell me, where do you live now ? " 

Marius did not answer. 

“ If I liked, I could compel you to look pleased.'* 

“ What do you mean ? " Marius asked. 

She looked at M. Marius intently and said, I have the 
address." ' 

Marius turned pale, and all hi^blood flowed to his heart. 

“ What address ? " 

The young lady’s." 

Marius leapt from the parapet on which he was sitting, and 
wildly seized her hand. 

“ Oh ! lead me to it ! tell me ! where is it ? ’’ 

“ Come with me," she answered ; “ I don’t exactly know the 
street or the number, and it is quite on the other side of town, 
but I know the house well, and will take you to it." 

She withdrew her hand, and continued in a tone which would 
have made an observer’s heart bleed, but did not at all aflect 
the transported lover, “ Oh, how pleased you are ! " 



326 XiSS MISJSRABIjSS 

A cloud passed over Marius’s forehead, and he clutched 
Eponine’s arm. 

“ Your father ! promise me, Eponine, swear to me that you 
will never tell your father that address.” 

She turned to him with an air of stupefaction. “ Eponine ! 
how do you know that is my name ? ” 

Marius seized both her arms. 

** Answer me in Heaven's name — swear to me that you will 
not tell your father the address which you know.” 

“ Let me go ! ” she said, as she^burst into a laugh, “ how you 
are shaking me ! Yes, yea, I promise it, I swear it ! how does 
it concern me ? I will not tell my father the address.” 

“ And no one else ? ” said Marius. 

“ And no one else.” 

Now,” Marius continued, “ lead me there.” 

** Come on ! Oh, how glad he is ! ” she said. 

A few yards further on she stopped. 

“ By tlie bye, you know that you promised me something? 

Marius felt in his pocket ; he had nothing in the world but the 
five-franc piece destined for Father Thenardier, but he laid 
the coin in Eponine's hand. She let it slip through her fingers 
on the ground, and looking at him frowningly, said, — 

“ I do not want your money.” 

About the middle of the last century a President of the 
Parliament of Paris who kept a mistress under the rose, for at 
that day the nobility displayed their mistresses and the bour- 
geois concealed theirs, had “ a small house,” built in the Fau- 
bourg St. Germain, in the deserted Rue de Blomet, which is 
now called Rue Plumet, and not far from the spot which was 
formerly known as the“ fight of animals.” This house con- 
sisted of a pavilion only one storey in height, there were two 
sitting-rooms on the ground-floor, two bed-rooms on the first, 
a kitchen below, a boudoir above, an attic beneath the roof, 
and the whole was surrounded by a large garden with railings 
looking out on the street. This was all that passers-by could 
see. But behind the pavilion was a narrow yard, with an 
outhouse containing two rooms, where a nurse and a child 
could be concealed if necessary. In the back of this outhouse 
was a secret door leading into a long, paved winding passage, 
open to the sky, and bordered by two lofty walls. This passage, 



LES MISERABLES 


S27 


concealed with prodigious art, and, as it were, lost between the 
garden walls, whose every turn and winding it followed, led to 
another secret door, which opened about a quarter of a mile 
ofi, almost in another quarter, at the solitary end of the Rue 
de Babylone. The President went in by this door, so that even 
those who might have watched him, and observed that he 
mysteriously went somewhere every day, could not have sus- 
pected that going to the Rue de Babylone was going to the 
Rue Blomet. By clever purchases of ground, the ingenious 
magistrate had been enabled to make this hidden road upon 
his own land, and consequently uncontrolled. 

In October, 18S9, a middle-aged man presented himself and 
took the house as it stood, including of course the outhouse and 
the passage leading to the Rue de Babylone, and he had the 
two secret doors of this passage put in repair. The house was 
still furnished much as the President had left it, so the new 
tenant merely ordered a few necessary articles, had the paving 
of the yard put to rights, new stairs put in, and the windows 
mended, and eventually installed himself there with a young 
girl and an old woman, without any disturbance, and rather like 
a man slipping in than one entering his own house. The neigh- 
bours, however, did not chatter, for the simple reason that he 
had none. 

The tenant was in reality Jean Valjean, and the girl was 
Cosette. The domestic was a female of the name of Toussaint, 
whom Jean Valjean had saved from the hospital and wretched- 
ness, and who was old, rustic, and stammered, three qualities 
which determined Jean Valjean on taking her with him. He 
hired the* house in the name of M. Fauchelevent, annuitant. 
In all we have recently recorded the reader will have doubt- 
less recognized Valjean even sooner than Th6nardier did. 
Why had he left the convent of the Little Piepus ? Jean 
Valjean was happy in it. He saw Cosette daily, he said to 
himself that she was his, that no power on earth could rob 
him of her, that she would certainly become a nun, as she was 
daily gently urged to it, that henceforth the convent was the 
world for him as for her, that he would grow old in it and she 
grow up, that she would grow old and he die there ; and that, 
finally, no separation was possible. While reflecting on this, 
he said to himself that this child had the right to know life 
before renouncing it. And who knew whether Cosette, some 



328 


LES MISEBABLES 


day meditating on this, and feeling herself a reluctant nun, 
might not grow to hate him ? It was a last thought, almost 
seliish, and less heroic than the others, but it was insupportable 
to him. He resolved to leave the convent. 

On leaving it he carried with his own hands, and would 
not intrust to any porter, the small valise, of which he always 
had the key about him. This valise perplexed Cosette, 
owing to the aromatic smell which issued from it. Cosette 
called this valise the inseparable, and said, “ I am jealous of 
it.'' Jean VaJjean, however, felt a profound anxiety when 
he returned to the outer air. He discovered the house in 
the Rue Plumet, and hid himself in it, henceforth remaining 
in possession of the name of Ultimo Fauchelevent. At the 
same time he had hired two other lodgings in Paris, so that he 
might attract less attention than if he had always remained in 
the same quarter ; and that he might not be taken unaware, as 
on the night when he so miraculously escaped from Javert. 
These two lodgings were of a very mean appearance, and in 
two quarters very distant from each other, one being in the 
Rue de I'Ouest, the other in the Rue de THomme-arme. He 
spent a few weeks now and then at one or the other of these 
lodgings, taking Cosette with him, and leaving Toussaint behind. 

Properly speaking, however, Jean Val jean's house was at 
the Rue Plumet, and he had arranged his existence there in 
the following fashion : — Cosette and the servant occupied the 
pavilion, she had the best bed-room, with the painted press, 
the boudoir with the gilt beading, the President's drawing- 
room with its hangings and vast easy chairs, and the garden. 
All through the winter Cosette's small house was warmed 
from top to bottom, while Valjean himself lived in the sort of 
porter's lodge at the end of the back yard, which was furnished 
with a mattress and common bedstead, a deal table, two straw- 
bottomed chairs, an earthenware water-jug, a few books on a 
plank, and his dear valise in a corner, but he never had any 
fire. He dined with Cosette, and black bread was put on the 
table for him ; and he said to Toussaint, when she came, 
“ This young lady is mistress of the house." ** And you, sir ? " 
Toussaint replied, quite stupefied. “ Oh ! I am much better 
than the master, — I am the father." 

Cosette had been taught house-keeping in the convent, 
and checked the expenses, which were very small. Daily 



LES MISEBABLES 


329 


Jean Valjean took Cosette for a walk, leading her to the most 
sequestered allee of the Luxembourg, and every Sunday they 
attended Mass at the Church of St. Jacques du Haut-pas, 
because it was a long distance off. As it is a very poor dis- 
trict, he gave away a considerable amount of alms, which 
caused Theiiardier to head his letter to him in the way we 
have seen. He was fond of taking Cosette to visit the indigent 
and the sick, but no stranger ever entered the house in 
the Rue Plumet. Toussaint^ bought the provision, and Jean 
Valjean himself fetched the water from a fountain close by, 
on the boulevard.* The wood and wine were kept in a semi- 
subterranean building covered with rock- work, near the door 
in the Rue Babylone, and which had formerly served the 
President as a grotto, for in the age of the Follies and small 
houses, love was not possible without a grotto. In the door 
opening on the Rue Babylone there was a letterbox, but, as 
the inhabitants of the house in the Rue Plumet received no 
letters, this box, once on a time the go-between in amourettes, 
and the confidant of a love-sick lawyer, was now only of 
service to receive the tax-papers and the guard-summonses. 
For M. Fauchelevent, annuitant, belonged to the National 
Guard, and had been unable to escape the close meshes of 
the census of 1831. The municipal inquiries made at that 
period extended even to the convent of the Little Piepus, 
when Jean Valjean emerged venerable in the sight of the 
Major, and consequently worthy of mounting guard. Three 
or four times a year Jean Valjean donned his uniform and 
went on duty, and did so readily enough, for it was a disguise 
which enabled him to mix with werybody, while himself re- 
maining solitary. Jean Valjean had attained his sixtieth 
year, or the age of legal exemption ; but he did not look more 
than fifty ; besides, he had no wish to escape his Sergeant- 
major and cheat Count Lobau. He had no civil status, hid 
this name, his identity, his age, everything, and, as we just 
said, he was a willing Nation^ Guard ; all liis ambition was 
to resemble the first comer who pays taxes. The ideal of 
his man was internally an angel, externally a bourgeois. 

All three never left the house except by the gate in the 
Rue de Babylone ; and unless they were noticed through the 
garden gate it would be difficult to guess that they lived in 
the Rue Plumet* This gate was always locked, and Jean 



830 


LES MISERABLES 


Valjean left the garden untended, that it might not be no- 
ticed. In this, perhaps, he deceived himself. 

Cosette left the convent while still almost a child. She 
was but little more than fourteen, and at the “ ungrateful 
age," as we may say. With the exception of her eyes, she 
seemed rather ugly than pretty ; still she had no ungraceful 
feature, but she was awkward, thin, timid and bold at the 
same time, in short, a grown-up little girl. Her education 
was finished, that is to say, she had been taught religion, 
and more especially devotion, also “ history," that is to say, 
the thing so called in a convent ; geography, ‘grammar, the par- 
ticiples, the kings of France, and a little music, drawing, etc. ; 
but in other respects she was ignorant of everything, which 
is at once a charm and a peril. 

She loved her father, that is to say, Jean Valjean, with 
all her soul, with a simple filial passion, which rendered the 
worthy man a desired and delightful companion to her. Our 
readers will remember that M. Madeleine was fond of read- 
ing, and Jean Valjean continued in the same track ; he had 
learned to speak well, and ho possessed the eloquence of a 
humble, true, and self-cultivated intellect. During their tete- 
dk-tetes in the Luxembourg garden he gave her long explana- 
tions about all sorts of things, deriving his information from 
what he had read, and also from what he had suffered. While 
Cosette was listening to him her eyes vaguely wandered 
around This simple man was sufficient for Cosette's thoughts, 
in the same way as the wild garden was for her eyes. When 
she had chased the butterflies for a while she would run up 
to him panting, and say, “Oh ! how tired I am ! " and he 
would kiss her forehead. Octette adored this good man, and 
she was ever at his heels, for wherever Jean Valjean was, 
happiness was. As he did not live either in the pavilion or 
the garden, she was more attached to the paved back-yard 
than to the flower-laden garden, and preferred the little out- 
house with the straw chairs to the large drawing-room hung 
with tapestry, along which silk-covered chairs were arranged. 
Jean Valjean at times said to her with the smile of a man who 
is delighted to be annoyed , — “ Come, go to your own rooms I 
leave me at peace for a little while." 

So long as Cosette was young Jean Valjean readily talked 
to her about her mother, but when she grew up it was im- 



LES MISEBABLES 


S31 


possible for him to do so — ^he felt as if he dared not do it. 
Was it on account of Cosette or of Fantine ? He felt a 
species of religious horror at making thi^ shadow enter Co- 
sette's thoughts, and rendering a dead woman third person 
in their society. The more sacred this shade was to him, the 
more formidable was it. He thought of Fantine, and felt 
himself overwhelmed by the silence. He saw vaguely in the 
darkness something that resembled a finger laid on a lip. 
Had all the modesty which was in Fantine, and which, during 
her existence, came out of ber violently, returned after her 
death, to watch indignantly over the dead woman's peace, 
and sternly guard her in the tomb ? was Jean Valjean him- 
self unconsciously oppressed by it? We who believe in 
death are not prepared to reject this mysterious explanation, 
and hence arose the impossibility of pronouncing, even to 
Cosette, the name of Fantine. One day Cosette said to him, — 

** Father, I saw my mother last night in a dream. She had 
two large wings, and in life she must have been a sainted woman." 

“ Through martyrdom," Jean Valjean replied. Altogether, 
though, he was happy. Jean Valjean felt his thoughts melt 
into delight at all the marks of Cosette's exclusive tenderness, 
so satisfied with himself alone. The poor wretch, inundated 
with an angelic joy, trembled ; he assured himself with trans- 
ports that this would last his whole life ; he said to himself 
that he had not really suffered enough to deserve such radi- 
ant happiness, and he thanked God, in the depths of his soul, 
for having allowed him, villain as he was, to be thus loved by 
an innocent being. 

One day Cosette happened to Jook at herself in the glass, 
and said, ** Good gracious ! " She fancied that she was almost 
pretty, and this threw her into a singular trouble. Up to 
this moment she had not thought of her face, and though she 
saw herself in the mirror she did not look at herself. And, 
then, she had often been told that she was ugly ; Jean Val- 
jean alone would say gently, " Oh no, oh no ! " However 
this might be, Cosette had always believed herself ugly, and 
had grown up in this idea with the facile resignation of child- 
hood. And now all at once her looking-glass said to her, as 
Jean Valjean had done, " Oh no ! " And she was really beau- 
tiful. Her waist was formed, her skin had grown white, her 
hair was glossy, and an unknown splendour was lit up in her 



832 


LES MISEBABLES 


blue eyes. The consciousness of her beauty came to her fully 
in a minute, like the sudden dawn of day. She returned to the 
garden, believing herself a queen, hearing the birds sing, though 
it was winter, seeing the golden sky, the sun amid the trees, 
flowers on the shrubs ; she was wild, distraught, and in a 
state of ineflable ravishment. On his side, Jean Valjean 
experienced a profound and inexplicable contraction of 
the heart ; for some time past, in truth, he had contemplated 
with terror the beauty which daily appeared more radiant in 
Cosette's sweet face. It was a laughing dawn for her, but 
most mournful for him. 

From the day when Cosette said to herself, ** I am decidedly 
good-looking,'' she paid attention to her toilet. With faith 
in her beauty, all her feminine soul was expanded within 
her ; she had a horror of merinos, and felt ashamed of 
plush. Her father never refused her anything, and she knew 
at once the whole science of the hat, the dress, the mantle, 
the slipper, and the sleeve, of the fabric that suits, and the 
colour that is becoming, the science which makes the Parisian 
woman something so charming, profound, and dangerous. In 
less than a month little Cosette was in this Thebais of the 
Rue de Baby lone, not only one of the prettiest women, which 
is something, but one of the best dressed in Paris, which is a 
great deal more. However, by the simple inspection of 
Cosette's toilet, a woman would have seen that she had no 
mother. Certain small pr6prieties and social conventionalisms 
were not observed by Cosette ; a mother, for instance, would 
have told her that an unmarried girl does not wear brocade. 

Cosette, knowing herself to be beautiful, lost the grace of 
being ignorant of the fact, an exquisite grace, for beauty 
heightened by simplicity is ineffable, and nothing is so ador- 
able as a beauteous innocent maiden, who wallm along un- 
consciously, holding in her hand the key of a Paradise. But 
what she lost in ingenuous grace she regained in a pensive 
and serious charm. Her whole person, impregnated with the 
joys of youth, innocence, and beauty, exhaled a splendid me- 
lancholy. It was at this period that Marius saw her again, 
at the Luxembourg, after an interval of six months. 

The power of a glance has been so abused in love-romances 
that it has been discredited in the end, and a writer dares 
hardly assert now-a-days that two beings fell in love because 



LES MISERABLES 


333 


they looked at each other. And yet that is the way, and the 
sole way, in which people fall in love ; the rest is merely the 
rest, and comes afterwards. Nothing is more real than the 
mighty shocks which two souls give each other by exchanging 
this spark. At the hour when Cosette unconsciously gave 
that glance which troubled Marius, Marius did not suspect that 
he too gave a glance which troubled Cosette. For a long 
time she had seen and examined him in the way girls see and 
examine, while looking elsewhere. Marius was still thinking 
Cosette ugly, when Cosette^ had already considered Marius 
handsome, but as Jihe young man paid no attention to her he 
was an object of indifference. Still she could not refrain 
from sa3dng to herself that he had silky hair, fine eyes, regular 
teeth, an agreeable voice, when she heard him talking with his 
companions, that he perhaps walked badly, but with a grace 
of his own, that he did not appear at all silly, that his whole 
person was noble, gentle, simple, and proud, and lastly, 
that though he seemed poor he had the bearing of a gentleman. 

On the day when their eyes met, and at length suddenly 
said to the other the first obscure and ineffable things which 
the eye stammers, Cosette did not understand it at first. She 
returned pensively to the house in the Rue de I’Ouest, where 
Jean Valjean was spending six weeks, according to his 
wont. When she awoke the next morning she thought of the 
young stranger, so long indifferent and cold, who now seemed 
to pay attention to her, an attentfon w^hich at first did not 
appear at all agreeable to her, for she felt a little angry with 
the handsome, disdainful man. Our readers will remember 
Marius's hesitations, palpitation^, and terrors; he remained 
on his bench, and did not approach, and this vexed Cosette. 
One day she said to Jean Valjean, “ Father, suppose wo take 
a walk in that direction ? " Seeing that Marius did not come 
to her, she went to him, for, in such cases, every woman 
resembles Mahomet. And then, strange it is, the first 
symptom of true love in a young man is timidity ; in a girl it is 
boldness. This will surprise, and yet nothing is more simple ; 
the two sexes have a tendency to approach, and each assumes 
the qualities of the other. On this day Cosette's glance 
drove Marius mad, while his glance made Cosette tremble. 
Marius went away confiding, and Cosette restless. Now they 
adored each other. 



334 


LES MISERABLE3 


As extreme simplicity trenches on extreme coquetry, she 
smiled upon him most frankly. She daily awaited impatiently 
the hour for the walk ; she saw Marius, she felt indescribably 
happy, and sincerely believed that she was expressing her 
entire thoughts when she said to Jean Valjean, “ What a 
delicious garden the Luxembourg is ! Marius and Cosette 
were to each other in the night : they did not speak, they did 
not bow, they did not know each other, but they met ; and like 
the stars in the heavens, which are millions of leagues separ- 
ate, they lived by looking at each other. It was thus that 
Cosette gradually became a woman, and was developed into a 
beautiful and loving woman, conscious of her beauty and 
ignorant of her love. She was a coquette into the bargain, 
through her innocence* 

All situations have their instincts, and old and eternal 
mother Nature warned Jean Valjean darkly of the presence 
of Marius. Jean Valjean trembled in the depths of his mind. 
He never opened his mouth to Cosette about this stranger. 
One day, however, he could not refrain, and said, with that 
vague despair which suddenly thrusts the probe into its own 
misfortune, “ that young man looks like a pedant.'' Cosette 
restricted herself to saying, with supreme calmness, “ That 
young man ! " as if she looked at him for the first time in her 
life. “ How stupid I am," Jean Valjean thought, “ she had 
not even noticed him, and now I have pointed him out to her," 

Marius one day followed Cosette to the Bue do I'Ouest. 
Another day he spoke to the porter, and the porter spoke in 
his turn, and said to Jean Valjean, “ Do you happen to know, 
sir, a curious young man who has been making inquiries about 
you 1 " The next day Jean Valjean gave Marius that look 
which Marius at length noticed, and a week later Jean 
Valjean went away. He made a vow that he would never 
again set foot in the Rue de I'Ouest or the Luxembourg, and 
returned to the Rue Flumet. Cosette did not complain, she 
said nothing, she asked no questions, she did not attempt to 
discover any motive, for she had reached that stage when a girl 
fears that her thoughts may be perused, or she may betray 
herself. Jean Valjean had no experience of these miseries, 
the only ones which are charming, and the only ones he did 
not know, and on this account he did not comprehend the grave 
significance of Cosette's silence. Still he noticed that she 



LES MISERABLES 


336 


became sad, and he became gloomy. Inexperience was con- 
tending on both sides. Once he made an essay, by asking 
Cosette, “ Will you go to the Luxembourg V A beam 
illuminated Cosette's pale face ; ** Yes," she said. They went 
there, but three months had elapsed, and Marius no longer 
went there. The next day Jean Valjean again asked Cosette, 

** Will you go to the Luxembourg ? ” She answered sadly and 
gently, “ No." Jean Valjean was hurt by the sadness, and 
heart-broken by the gentleness. 

On her side, Cosette was pining ; she suffered from Marius's 
absence, as she had revelled in his presence, singularly, and 
not exactly knowing why. When Jean Valjean ceased taking 
her for her usual w^k, a feminine instinct whispered 
to her heart that she must not appear to be attached to 
the Luxembourg, and that if she displayed indifierence in 
the matter her father would take her back to it. On the 
day when they returned to the Luxembourg, Marius was no 
longer there. He had disappeared then, it was all over, 
She felt the contraction of the heart which nothing dilated, 
and which daily increased. Still she did not allow Jean Valjean 
to see anything but her pallor, and her face was ever gentle 
to him. 

These two beings, who had loved each other so exclusively, 
and one of them with such a touching love, and had lived for a 
long time one through the other, were now suffering side by 
side, one on account of the other, without confessing it, with- 
out anger, and with a smile. 

Jean Valjean had, as we know, a liking to go to but little 
frequented places, to solitary nooks and forgotten spots. 
There were at that time, in the Vicinity of the gates of Paris, 
poor fields, almost forming part of the city, where sickly 
wheat grew in summer, and which in autumn, after the har- 
vest was gone in, did not look as if they had been reaped, but 
skinned. Jean Valjean had a predilection for these fields, 
and Cosette did not feel wearied there ; it was solitude for 
him and liberty for her. There she became a little girl again, 
she ran about and almost played, she took off her bonnet, 
laid it on Jean Valjean's l^ees, and plucked flowers. She 
watched the butterflies, but did not catch them, for humanity 
and tenderness spring up with love, and the maiden who has in 
her heart a trembling and fragile idea feels pity for the but- 



S36 


LES MISERABLES 


terfly's wing. She twined poppies into wreaths, which she 
placed on her head, and when the sun poured its beams upon 
them and rendered them almost purple, they formed a fiery 
crown for her fresh pink face. 

Even after their life had grown saddened they kept up 
a habit of early walks. One October morning, tempted by the 
perfect serenity of the autumn of 1831, they went out, and 
found themselves just before daybreak near the Barriere du 
Maine. It was not quite morning yet, but it was dawn, a 
ravishing and wild minute. There were a few stars in the 
pale azure sky, the earth was all black, the heavens all white, 
a shiver ran along the grass, and all around displayed the 
mysterious influence of twilight. A lark, which seemed 
mingled with the stars, was singing at a prodigious height, 
and it seemed as if this hymn of littleness to infinitude calmed 
the immensity. In the east the dark mass of Val de Grace 
stood out against the bright steel blue horizon, and glittering 
Venus rose behind the dome and looked like a soul escaping 
from a gloomy edifice. All was peace and silence, there was no 
one in the highway, and a few workmen, going to their daily 
toil, could be indistinctly seen in the distance. 

Jean Val jean was seated on some planks deposited at the 
gate of a timber-yard, his face was turned to the road, and 
^ back to the light ; he forgot all about the sunrise, for he 
had fallen into one of those profound reveries in which the 
mind is concentrated, which imprison even the glance and are 
equivalent to four walls. Jean Valjean was thinking of Cos- 
ette, of the possible happiness if nothing came betwixt him and 
her, of that light with which she filled his life, and which was 
the breath of his soul. He &lt;&lt;ras almost happy in this reverie, 
andCosette, standing by his side, was watching the clouds turn 
pink. All at once Cosette exclaimed, “ Father, there is some- 
thing coming down here ! ” Jean Valjean raised his eyes : 
Cosette was correct. 

Seven vehicles were moving in file along the road, and the 
first six had a singular shape ; they resembled brewers' drays, 
and consisted of long ladders laid upon two wheels, and form- 
ing a shaft at the &amp;ont end. Each dray, or, to speak more 
correctly, each ladder, was drawn by a team of four horses, 
and strange clusters of men were dragged along upon these 
ladders. In the faint light these men could not ^ seen so 



LES MISEBABLES 


aS7 


much as divined. Twenty-four on each ladder, twelve on 
either side, leaning against each other, had their faces turned 
to the passers-by, and their legs hanging down ; and they had 
behind their back something which rang, and was a chain, 
and something that glistened, which was a collar. Each man 
had his collar, but the chain was for all, so that these twenty- 
four men, if obliged to get down from the dray and walk, 
were seized by a species of inexorable unity, and were obliged 
to wind on the gi;ound with the chain as backbone, very 
nearly like centipedes. At •the front and back of each car 
were two men armed with guns, who stood with their feet on 
the end of the chain. The seventh vehicle, a vast fourgon, 
with rack side, but no hood, had four wheels and six horses, 
and carried a resounding mass of coppers, boilers, chafing-dishes, 
and chains, among which were mingled a few bound men lying 
their full length, who seemed to be ill. This fourgon, which 
was quite open, was lined with broken-down hurdles, which 
seemed to have been used for old punishments. 

The men piled up on the drays allowed themselves to be 
jolted in silence, and were livid with the morning chill. They 
all wore canvas trousers, and their naked feet were thrust 
into wooden shoes, but the rest of their attire was left to the 
fancy of wretchedness. Their accoutrements were hideously 
disaccordant, for nothing is more mournful than the harle- 
quin garb of rags. There were crushed hats, oilskin caps, 
frightful woollen night-caps, and, side by side with the blouse, 
an out-at-elbow black coat. Some wore women's bonnets, 
and others had baskets, as head-gear ; hairy chests were visible, 
and through the rents of the clothes tattooing could be dis- 
tinguished — temples of love, burning hearts and cupids, — ^but 
ringworm and other unhealthy red spots niight also be no- 
ticed. Two or three had passed a straw rope through the side 
rail of the dray, which hung down like a stirrup and sup- 
ported their feet, while one of them held in his hand and 
raised to his mouth something like a black stone which he 
seemed to be gnawing ; it was bread he was eating. All the 
eyes were dry, and cither dull, or luminous with a wicked 
light. The escort cursed, but the chained men did not breathe 
a syllable ; from time to time the sound of a blow dealt with 
a stick on shoulder-blades or heads could be heard : some of 
these men yawned ; the rags were terrible ; their feet hung down, 



338 


LES MISERABLES 


their shoulders oscillated, their heads struck against each 
other, their irons rattled, their eye-balls flashed ferociously, 
their fists clenched, or opened inertly like the hands of death, 
and in the rear of the chain a band of children burst into a laugh. 

This file of vehicles whatever their nature might be, was 
lugubrious. It was plain that within an hour a shower might 
fall, that it might be followed by another, and then another ; 
that the ragg^ clothing would be drenched and that, once 
wet through, these men would not dry again, and once chilled, 
would never grow warm any more^; that their canvas trousers 
would be glued to their bones by the rain, that water would 
fill their wooden shoes, that lashes could not prevent the 
chattering of teeth, that the chain would continue to hold them 
by the neck, and their feet would continue to hang; and 
it was impossible not to shudder on seeing these human 
creatures thus bound and passive beneath the cold autumnal 
clouds, and surrendered to the rain, the breezes, and all the 
furies of the atmosphere, like trees and stones. The blows 
were not even spared the sick who lay bound with ropes and 
motionless in the seventh vehicle, and who seemed to have 
been thrown down there like sacks filled with wretchedness. 

All at once the sun appeared, and it seemed as if it set 
fire to all these ferocious heads. Tongues became untied, 
and a storm of furies, oaths, and songs exploded. The wide 
horizontal light cut the whole file in two, illumining the 
heads and bodies, and leaving the feet and wheels in ob- 
scurity. Thoughts appeared on faces, and it was a fearful 
thing to see demons with their masks thrown away, and fero- 
cious souls laid bare. Some of the merrier ones had in their 
mouths quills, through which they blew vermin on the crowd, 
selecting women : the dawn caused their lamentable faces to 
stand out in the darkness of the shadows. Not one of these 
beings but was misshapen through wretchedness, and it was so 
monstrous that it seemed to change the light of the sun into 
the gleam of a lightning flash. The first cart-load had struck 
up, and were now loudly singing, with a haggard joviality, 
a pot-pourri of Desaugiers, at that time famous, under the 
title of la Vestale; the trees shook mournfully, while in 
the side-walks bourgeois faces were listening with an idiotic 
beautitude to these comic songs chanted by spectres. 

Jean Valjean's eye had become frightful ; it was no longer 



LES MISERABLES 


339 


an eyeball, but that profound glass bulb which takes the place 
of the eye in some unfortunate men, which seems unconscious 
of reality, and in which the reflection of horrors and catastrophes 
flashes. He remained petrified and stupid, asking himself 
through a confused and inexpressible agony what was the 
meaning of this sepulchral persecution, and whence came 
this Pandemonium that pursued him. All at once he raised 
his hands to his forehead, the usual gesture of those to whom 
memory suddenly returns ; ho remembered that this was 
really the itinerary, that^this detour was usual to avoid 
any meeting witL royalty, which was always possible on the 
Fontainebleau road, and that five-and-thirty years before he 
had passed through that barriere. Cosette was not the less 
horrified, though in a different way ; she did not understand, 
her breath failed her, and what she saw did not appear to her 
possible ; at length she exclaimed, — 

“ Father ! what is there in those vehicles I 
Jean Valjean answered, — 

“ Convicts.” 

" Where are they going ? ” 

“ To the galleys.” 

It was, in fact, the Chain, which leaving Bicetre before 
daybreak, was taking the Mans road, to avoid Fontainebleau, 
where the king then was. This detour made the fearful 
journey last three or four days longer; but it surely may 
be prolonged to save a royal personage the sight of a punish- 
ment I Jean Valjean went home crushed, for such encounters 
are blows, and the recollections they leave behind resemble 
concussion. While walking along the Rue de Baby lone Jean 
Valjean did not notice that Cosette asked him other questions 
about what they had just seen ; perhaps he was himself too 
absorbed in his despondency to notice her remarks and answer 
them. At night, however, when Cosette left him to go to bed, 
he heard her say in a low voice, and as if speaking to herself, 
I feel that if I were to meet one of those men in the street 
I should die only from being so close to him.” 

Luckily, the next day after this tragic interlude there 
were festivals in Paris on account of some official solemnity. 
Jean Valjean, breaking through his habits, took Cosette to 
these rejoicings, in order to make her forget the scene of the 
previous day, and efface, beneath the laughing tumult of all 



S40 


LES MISERABLES 


Farifl, the abominable thing which had passed before her. The 
review which seasoned the fete, rendered uniforms very 
natural ; hence Jean Valjean put on his National Guard coat, 
with the vague inner feeling of a man who is seeking a refuge. 
However, the object of this jaunt seemed to be attained. Co- 
sette, who made it a law to please her father, and to whom any 
festival was a novelty, accepted the distraction with the 
easy and right good-will of adolescents, and did not make too 
disdainful a pout at the porringer of joy which is called a 
public holiday. Hence Jean Val}ean might believe that he 
had succeeded, and that no trace of the hideous vision re- 
mained. A few days after, one morning when the sun was 
shining, and both were on tlie garden steps — another infraction 
of the rules which Jean Valjean seemed to have imposed 
on himself, and that habit of remaining in her chamber which 
sadness had caused Cosctte to assume — ^the girl, wearing a 
combing ja'^ket, was standing in that morning neglige which 
adorably envelopes maidens, and looks like a cloud over a 
star, and with her head in the light, her cheeks pink from a 
good night/s rest, and gazed at softly by the old man, she was 
plucking the petals of a daisy. She did not know the deli- 
cious legend of “ I love you, a little, passionately," etc., for 
who could have taught it to her ? She handled the flower 
instinctively and innocently, without suspecting that' pluck- 
ing a daisy to pieces is questioning a heart. Jean Valjean was 
fascinated by the contemplation of these little fingers ou 
this flower, forgetting everything in the radiance which sur- 
rounded the child. She seemed to be thinking of something, 
but that something must be charming. All at once she turned 
her head on her shoulder, with the delicate slowness of a 
swan, and said to Jean Valjean, “ Tell me, father, what the 
galleys are.” 

Their life thus gradually became overcast ; only one amuse- 
ment was left them which had formerly been a happiness, 
and that was to carry bread to those who were starving, and 
clothes to those who were cold. It was at this period 
that they paid the visit to Jondrette's den. The day after 
that visit Jean Valjean appeared at an early hour in the 
pavilion, calm as usual, but with a large wound in his left 
ann» that resembled a bum, and which he accounted for in 
some way or other. This wound kept him at home for a whole 



LES MISEBABLES 


341 


month, foi he would not see any medical man. Cosette 
dressed his wound morning and night with an air of such an- 
gelic happiness at being useful to him, that Jean Valjean 
felt all his fears and anxieties dissipated, and he gazed at Co- 
sette, saying, “ Oh, the excellent wound ! the good evil ! '' 

Cosette, seeing her father ill, spent nearly the whole day by 
the side of Jean Valjean, and read to him any books he chose, 
which were generally travels. Jean Valjean was regenerated : 
liis tranquillity returned with ineffable radiance. His happi- 
ness was such that the tristful discovery of the Thenardiers 
in the Jondrettes, which was so unexpected, had to some 
extent glided over him. He had succeeded in escaping, 
his trail was lost, and what did he care for the rest ! As for the 
hideous vision of the Barriere du Maine, Cosette had not spoken 
again about it. In the convent Sister Ste Mechtilde had 
taught Cosette music ; she had a voice such as a linnet would 
have if it possessed a soul, and at times she sang melancholy 
songs in the wounded man^s obscure room, which Jean 
Valjean was delighted with. Spring arrived, and the garden 
was so delicious at that season of the year, that Jean Valjean 
said to Cosette, “ You never go out, and I wish you to take a 
stroll.'' “ As you please, father," said Cosette. And, to 
obey her father, she resumed her walks in the garden, generally 
alone, for, as we have mentioned, Jean Valjean, who was pro- 
bably afraid of being seen from the gate, hardly ever entered it. 

CHAPTER XVL 

One evening little Qavroche had eaten nothing ; he remem- 
bered that he had not dined either on the previous day, 
and that was becoming ridiculous, so he formed the resolution 
to try and sup. He went prowling about at the deserted 
spots beyond the SalpetriSre, for there are good windfalls 
there. He thus reached a suburb which seemed to him to be 
the village of Austerlitz. In one of his previous strolls he 
had noticed there an old garden frequented by an old man and 
an old woman, and in this garden a passable apple-tree. By 
the side of this tree was a sort of badly-closed fruit-loft, whence 
an apple might be obtained. Gavroche proceeded to the 
garden ; he found the lane again, he recognized the apple- 
tree, and examined the hedge ; a hedge is but a stride. Day 



342 


LES MISEBABLES 


was declining, Gavroche was preparing to clamber over the 
hedge, when he stopped short — some people were talking in 
the garden. Two paces from him at the foot of the hedge, 
lay a stone, which formed a species of bench, and on this 
bench the old man of the garden was seated with the old 
woman standing in front of him. Gavroche listened. 

“ Monsieur Mabceuf ! " 

** Well, Mother Plutarch ! ” 

“ The landlord is not satisfied. There are three quarters 
owing. He says that he will turn you out." 

“ I will go." 

“ The butcher has stopped our credit, and will not supply 
any more meat." 

" That is lucky, for I cannot digest meat ; it is heavy." 

“ But what shall we have for dinner ? " 

“ Bread." 

“ The baker insists on receiving something on account ; no 
money, no bread, he says." 

" Very good." 

" But really, sir, we cannot live in that way without money.^^ 

" I have none." 

The old woman went away, and left the old gentleman 
alone. He began thinking, and Gavroche thought too : it 
was almost night. The first result of Gavroche's reflection 
was that, instead of climbing over the hedge, he lay down 
under it. The branches parted a little at the bottom. “ Hilloh,'^ 
said Gavroche to himself, “ it's an alcove," and he crept into 
it. His back was almost against the octogenarian’s bench, and 
he could hear him breathe. Then, in lieu of dining, Gavroche 
tried to sleep, but it was the sleep of a cat, with one eye open. 
The whiteness of the twilight sky lit up the ground, and the 
lane formed a livid line between two rows of dark streets. All 
at once two figures appeared on this white stripe, one was in 
front and the other a little distance behind. 

' The first figure seemed to be some old bowed citizen, who 
walked slowly, owing to his age, and was strolling about in 
the starlight. The second was straight, firm, and slim ; he 
regulated his steps by those of the man in front. He held 
his head up with a sort of robust grace, and under the hat a 
glimpse could be caught of a pale, youthful profile in the 
twilight. This profile had a rose in its mouth, and was fami* 



LES MISERABLES 


343 


liar to Gavroche, for it was Montparnasse. Gavroche at 
once began observing, for it was evident that one of these 
men had projects upon the other. Montparnasse hunting at 
such an hour and such a spot, that was menacing. What 
should he do ? interfere ? one weakness helping another ! 
Montparnasse would have laughed at it, for Gavroche did not 
conceal from himself that the old man tet, and then the boy, 
would be only two mouthfuls for this formidable bandit of 
eighteen. While Gavroche was deliberating, the attack, a 
sudden and hideous attack, took place. Montparnasse threw 
away the rose, leapt upon the old man, grappled him and 
clung to him, and Gavroche had difficulty in repressing a cry, 
A moment after one of these men was beneath the other, 
crushed, gasping. But it was not exactly what Gavroche had 
anticipated ; the man on the ground was Montparnasse, the 
one at the top the citizen. 

That's a tough invalids," Gavroche thought. And he 
could not refrain from clapping his hands, but it was not heard 
by the two combatants, ^er the struggle there was a silence, 
and Montparnasse ceased writhing. The worthy man had not 
uttered a word or given a cry ; he rose, and Gavroche heard 
him say to Montparnasse, “ Get up." 

Montparnasse did so, but the citizen still held him. Gav- 
roche looked and listened, and was able to catch the following 
dialogue — ^the gentleman questioned, and Montparnasse an- 
swered : — 

“ What is your age ? " 

" Nineteen." 

" You are strong and healthy, why do you not work f 
What is your trade ? " 

" Idler." 

“ Speak seriously. Can anything be done for you ? what 
do you wish to be ? 

“ A robber." 

There was a silence, and tlie old gentleman seemed in pro- 
found thought, but he did not lose his hold of Montparnasse. 
Every now and then the young bandit, who was vigorous and 
active, shook himself, attempted a trip, wildly writhed his 
limbs, and tried to escape. The old gentleman did not appear 
to notice it, and held the ruffian's two arms in one hand with 
the sovereign indifierenoe of absolute strength. The old man’s 



844 


LES MISEBABLES 


reverie lasted some time ; then gazing fixedly at Montparnasse^ 
he mildly raised his voice and addressed to him, in the dark- 
ness where they stood, a sort of solemn appeal, of which 6av- 
roche did not lose a syllable. 

My boy, you are entering by sloth into the most laborious 
of existences. Stop while there is yet time, and save your- 
self, otherwise it is all over with you. Labour is the law, and 
whoever repulses it as a bore must have it as a punishment. 
You do not wish to be a labourer, and you ^ill be a slave. Ah, 
you do not care for the honest fatigue of men, and you are 
about to know the sweat of the damned ; while others sing 
you will groan. You will see other men working in the dis- 
tance, and tliey will seem to you to be resting. The labourer, 
the reaper, the sailor, the blacksmith, will appear to you in the 
light like the blessed inmates of a paradise. You want fine 
black cloth, polished shoes, to scent your head with fragrant 
oil to please creatures, and be a pretty fellow ; you will have 
your hair close shaven, and wear a red jacket and wooden 
shoes. You want a ring on your finger, and will wear a collar 
on your neck, and if you look at a woman you will be beaten. 
And you will go in there at twenty and come out at fifty years 
of age. You will go in young, red-cheeked, healthy, with your 
sparkling eyes, and all your white teeth, and your curly locks, 
and you will come out again broken, bent, wrinkled, toothless, 
horrible, and grey-headed ! Ah, my poor boy, you are on the 
wrong road, and indolence is a bad adviser, for robbeiy is the 
hardest of labours. Take my advice, and do not undertake 
the laborious task of being an idler. Now go and think over 
what I have said to you. Ey the bye, what did you want of 
me ? my purse ? here it is.** 

And the old man, releasing Montparnasse, placed his purse 
in his hand, which Montparnasse weighed for a moment ; after 
which, with the same mechanical precaution as if he had stolen 
it, Montparnasse let it glide gently into the back-pocket of his 
coat. 

" Old humbug ! ** he muttered. Who was the old gentle- 
man ? The reefer has doubtless guessed. Montparnasse, in 
his stupefaction, watched him till he disappeared in the gloom, 
and this contemplation was fatal for him. While the old gen- 
tleman retired Gavroche advanced. He had assured himself 
by a glance that Father Maboeuf was still seated on his bench 



LES MISEBA^LES 


345 


and was probably asleep. Then the gamin left the bushes, and 
began crawling in the shadow behind the motionless Mont- 
parnasse. He thus got up to the young bandit unnoticed, 
gently insinuated his hand into the back-pocket of the 
fine black cloth coat, seized the purse, withdrew his hand, 
and crawled back again into the shadow like a lizard. 
Montparnasse, who had no reason to be on his guard, 
perceived nothing, and Gavroche, when he had returned 
to the spot where Father Mabmuf was sitting, threw the 
purse over the hed'ge and ran off at full speed. The purse 
fell on Father Mabceuf’s foot and awoke him. He stooped 
down and picked -up the purse, which he opened, without 
comprehending anything. It was a purse with two compart- 
ments ; in one was some change, in the other were six Napo- 
leons. M. Maboeuf, greatly startled, carried the thing to hia 
housekeeper. 

“ It has fallen from heaven,” said Mother Plutarch. 

This adventure saddened Jean Valjean for a time, even 
though Cosette’s sorrow had now attained the convalescent 
stage. Nature, spring, youth, love for her father, the gaiety 
of the flowers and birds, filtered gradually day by day, and 
drop by drop, something that almost resembled oblivion into 
her virginal and young soul. Was the fire entirely extin- 
guished ? or were layers of ashes merely formed ? The fact 
is, that she hardly felt at all the painful and burning point, 
and one day when she suddenly thought of Marius ; ” Why,*^ 
she said, “ I had almost forgotten him.” The same week 
she noticed while passing the garden gate, a very handsome 
ofiScer in the lancers, with a wasp-like waist, a delightful uni- 
form, the cheeks of a girl, a sabre wonder his arm, waxed mous- 
taches, and lacquered schapska. In other respects, he had 
light hair, blue eyes flush with his head, a round, vain insolent, 
and pretty face ; he was exactly the contrary of Marius. He 
had a cigar in his mouth, and Cosette supposed that he belonged 
to the regiment quartered in the barracli of the Rue de Baby- 
lone. The next day she saw him pass again, and remarked 
the hour. From this moment — ^was it an accident I — she saw 
Theodule — ^for it was he — pass nearly every day. 

It was at this identical time that Marius was slowly descen- 
ing to the abyss, and said, ” If I could only see her again 
before I die ! ” If his wish had been realized, if he had at that 



346 


LE3 MISERABLES 


moment seen Cosette looking at a lancer^ he would have been 
unable to utter a word, but expired of grief. Marius possessed 
one of those temperaments which bury themselves in chagrin, 
and abide in it. Cosette was one of those who plunge into it, 
and again emerge. Cosette, however, was passing through 
that dangerous moment, the fatal phase of feminine reverie 
left to itself, in which the heart of an isolated maiden resembles 
those vine tendrils which cling, according to chance, to the 
capital of a marble column or to the sign-post of an inn. 

What was there in Cosette's soul ? The image of the 
handsome officer was reflected on the surface, but was there 
any reminiscence at the bottom, quite at the bottom ? Per- 
haps so, but Cosette did not know. 

A singular incident occurred. 

In the first fortnight of April Jean Valjean went on a journey : 
this, as we know, occurred from time to time at very lengthened 
intervals. Where did he go 1 No one knew, not even 
Cosette. It was generally when money ran short in the 
house that Jean Valjean took these trips. Jean Valjean then, 
was absent, and he had said, “ I shall be back in three days.” 
At night Cosette was alone in the drawing-room, and in order 
to wile away the time, she opened her piano and began singing 
to her own accompaniment the song of Euryanthe, “ Hunters 
wandering in the wood,"’*' which is probably the finest thing 
we possess in the shape of music. When she had finished she 
remained passive, till she suddenly fancied she heard some one 
walking in the garden. Cosette was near the drawing-room 
shutters, which were closed, and put her ear to them ; and it 
seemed to her that it was the footfall of a man whc was walk- 
ing very gently. She hurried up to her room on the first-floor, 
opened a Venetian frame in her shutter, and looked out into 
the garden. The moon was shining bright as day, and there 
was nobody in it. 

Cosette fancied that she was mistaken, and' thought no 
more of it. Moreover, she was not naturally very timid. As 
we may remember, she was rather a lark than a dove, and she 
had a stern and brave temper. 

The next evening, at nightfall, she was walking about the 
garden. In the midst of the confused thoughts which occupied 
her mind, she fancied that she could distinguish now and then 
a noise like that of the previous night, as if some one were 



LES MISEBABLES 


347 


walking in the gloom under the trees not far from her. She 
left the ** thicket/^ and had a small grass-plat to cross ere she 
reached the house. The moon, which had just risen behind 
her, projected Cosette's shadow upon the grass in front of her, 
and she stopped in terror. By the side of her shadow the 
moon distinctly traced on the grass another singularly start- 
ling and terrible shadow — &amp; shadow with a hat on its head. 
For a moment she was unable to speak or cry, but at last she 
collected all her courage and boldly turned round. There was 
nobody. She went back into the shrubs, bravely searched in 
every corner, and discovered nothing. 

The next day J^an Valjean returned, and Cosette told him 
what she fancied she had seen and heard. 

“ Perhaps it is nothing,*' he said ; but he left her with 
some excuse, and went into the garden, where she saw him 
examine the railings with considerable attention. He also 
passed that and the two following nights in the garden, and 
Cosette saw him through the hole in her shutter. On the 
third night the moon was beginning to rise later, and it might 
be about one in the morning when she heard a hearty burst of 
laughter, and her father's voice calling her, — 

“ Cosette ! " 

She leapt out of bed, put on her dressing gown, and opened 
her window ; her father was standing on the grass-plat below, 

“ I have woke you up to reassure you," he said ; “ look at 
this, — here's your shadow in the round hat." 

And he showed her on the grass a shadow which the moon 
designed, and which really looked rather like the spectre of a 
man wearing a round hat. It was an outline produced by a 
zinc chimney-pot with a cowl, wffich rose above an adjoining 
roof. Cosette also began laughing, all her mournful suppo- 
sitions fell away, and the next morning at breakfast she jested 
at the ill-omened garden, haunted by the ghost of chimney-pots. 

She did not cross-question herself, as to the singularity of a 
chimney-pot which is afraid of being caught in the act, and 
retires when its shadow is looked at, for the shadow did retire 
when Cosette turned round, and she fancied herself quite cer- 
tain of that fact. A few days after, however, a fresh incident 
occurred. 

In the garden, near the railings looking out on the street, 
there was a stone bench, protected from the gaze of passers-by 



348 


LES MISERABLES 


by a hed^e. One evening in this same month of April, Jean 
Yaljean Imd gone out, and Cosette, after sunset, was seated on 
this bench. Cosette was reflecting ; an objectless sorrow was 
gradually gaining on her, which comes perhaps — ^for who 
knows ? — from the mystery of the tomb which is yawning at 
the moment. Possibly Fantine was in that shadow. 

Cosette rose, and slowly went round the garden walking 
on the dew-laden grass. She returned to the bench, but at 
the moment when she was going to sit down, she noticed at 
the place she had left a rather large stone, which had evidently 
not been there a moment before ; all at once the idea that the 
stone had not reached the bench of itself, *that some one had 
placed it there, and that an arm had been passed through the 
grating, occurred to her and frightened her. No doubt was 
possible ; she did not touch it, but fled without daring to look 
behind her. On entering she asked Toussaint, — 

“ Has my father come in t ” 

" No, Miss." 

Jean Valjean, a thoughtful man, and stroller by night, often 
did not return till a late hour. 

“ Toussaint," Cosette continued, “ be careful to put up 
the bars to the shutters looking on the garden, and to place 
the little iron things in the rings that close them." 

Toussaint did not fail, and Cosette was well aware of the 
fact, but she could not refrain from adding, — 

“ For it is so desolate here.” 

“ Well, that's true," said Toussaint ; “ we might be mui&gt; 
dured before we had time to say, Ouf ! and then too, master 
does not sleep in the house. But don’t be frightened. Miss. 1 
fastened up the windows like^'Bastilles. Lone women ! I should 
think that is enough to make a body shudder. Only think ! to 
see men coming into your bed-room and hear them say, ' Hold 
your tongue ! ' and then they begin to cut your throat. It is 
not BO much the dying, for everybody dies, and we know that 
we must do so, but it is the abomination of feeling those fellows 
touch you; and then their knives are not sharp, perhaps) 
oh. Lord ! " 

“ Hold your tongue," said Cosette, " and fasten up every- 
thing securely." 

Cosette, terrified by the drama improvised by Toussaint, 
and perhaps too by the apparitions of the last week, which re- 



LES MISEBABLES 


349 


tamed to her mind, did not even dare to say to her, “ Just go 
and look at the stone laid on the bench,” for fear of having to 
open the garden gate again, and the men might walk in. She 
had all the doors and windows carefully closed, made Toussaint 
examine the whole house from cellar to attic, locked herself 
in her bed-room, looked under the bed, and slept badly. The 
whole night through she saw the stone as large as a mountain 
and full of caverns. At sunrise she dressed herself, went 
down into the garden, and raised the stone, which was of some 
size, and there was something under it that resembled a letter ; 
it was as an envelope of white paper. Cosette seized it ; there 
was no address on "it, and it was not sealed up. Cosette took 
out a small quire of paper, each page of which was numbered, 
and bore several lines written in a very nice and delicate hand, 
so Cosette thought. She looked for a name, but there was 
none ; for a signature, but there was none either. For whom 
was the packet intended ? Probably for herself, as a hand had 
laid it on the bench. From whom did it come 1 An irresist- 
ible fascination seized upon her ; she tried to turn her eyes 
away from these pages which trembled in her hand. She 
looked at the sky, the street, the acacias all bathed in light, the 
pigeons circling round an adjoining roof, and then her eye 
settled on the manuscript, and she said to herself, that she 
must know what was inside it. This is what she read : — 

The reduction of the Universe to a single being, the dilata- 
tion of a single being as far as God, such is love. 

Love is the salutation of the angels to the stars. 

How sad the soul is when it is sad through love ! what a 
void is the absence of the being, who of her own self fills the 
world ! Oh ! how true it is thaf the beloved being becomes 
God ! We might understand how God might be jealous of her, 
had not the Father of all evidently made creation for the soul, 
and the soul for love. 


Separated lovers cheat absence by a thousand chimerical 
things, which, however, have their reality. They are pre- 
vented seeing each other, and they cannot write, but they 
find a number of mysterious ways to correspond. They send 
to each other the song of birds, the light of the sun, the sighs 
of the breeze, the rays of the stars, and the whole of creation ; 



S50 


LES mSERABLES 


and why should they not ? All the works of Ood are made to 
serve love. Love is sulficiently powerful to interest all nature 
with its messages. 

Love is a portion of the soul itself, and is of the same nature 
as it. Like it, it is the divine spark ; like it, it is incorruptible 
indivisible, and imperishable. It is a point of fire within us, 
winch is immortal and infinite, which nothing can limit, and 
nothing extinguish ; we feel it burning even in the marrow 
of our bones, and see its flashing in the depths of the heavens. 

God can add nothing to the happiness of those who love, 
except giving them endless duration. After a life of love, an 
eternity of love is in truth an augmentation ; but it is impos- 
sible even for God to increase in its intensity the ineffable 
felicity which love gives to the soul in this world. God is the 
fulness of heaven, love is the fulness of man. 

When love has blended and moulded two beings in an angelic 
and sacred union, they have found the secret of life ; hence- 
forth they are only the two terms of the same destiny, the two 
wings of one mind. Love and soar ! 

True love is in despair, or enchanted by a lost glove or a 
found handkerchief, and it requires eternity for its devotion 
and its hopes. It is composed at once of the infinitely great 
and the infinitely little. 


What a grand thing it is to be loved ! what a grander thing 
still to love ! The heart becomes heroic by the might of pas- 
sion. Henceforth it is composed of nought but what is pure, 
and is only supported by what is elevated and great. An 
unworthy thought can no more germinate in it than a nettle on 
a glacier. The lofty and serene soul, inaccessible to emotions 
and vulgar passions, soaring above the clouds and shadows of 
the world, follies, falsehoods, hatreds, vanities, and miseries, 
dwells in the azure of the sky, and henceforth only feels the 
profound and subterranean heavings of destiny as the summit 
of the mountains feels earthquakes. 

While reading these lines Cosette gradually fell into a 
reverie, and at the moment when she raised hex eyes from the 



LES MISEBABLES 


351 


last page the pietty officer passed triumphantly in front of the 
gate for it was his hour. Cosette found him hideous. She 
began gazing at the roll of paper again ; it was in an exquisite 
hand-writing, Cosette thought, all written by the same hand, 
but with different inks, some very black, others pale as when 
ink is put in the stand, and consequently on different days. It 
was, therefore, a thought expanded on the paper, sigh by sigh, 
irregularly, without order, without choice, without purpose. 

From whom could these pages come ? Who could have 
written them ? Cosette did €iot hesitate for a moment, — only 
from one man, from him ! Daylight had returned to her mind, 
and everything reappeared. She experienced an extraordinary 
joy and a profound agony. It was he ! he who wrote to her ! 
he had been there ! his arm had been passed through the rail- 
ings ! while she was forgetting him he had found her again ! 
But had she forgotten him ? No, never ! she was mad to have 
thought so for a moment, for she had ever loved, ever adored 
him. 

As she finished reading it for the tliird time Lieutenant 
Theodule returned past the railings, and clanked his spurs on 
the pavement. Cosette was obliged to raise her eyes, and she 
found him insipid, silly, stupid, useless, fatuous, displeasing, 
impertinent, and very ugly. The officer thought himself 
bound to smile, and she turned away ashamed and indignant ; 
she would gladly have thrown something at his head. She ran 
away, re-entered the house, and locked herself in her bed-room, 
to re-read the letter, learn it by heart, and dream. When she 
had read it thoroughly she kissed it and hid it in her bosom. It 
was all over. Cosette had fallen back into the profound sera- 
phic love, the Paradisaic abyss had opened again. 

When night came Jean Valjean went out, and Cosette 
dressed herself. She arranged her hair in the way that best 
became her, and put on a dress whose body, being cut a little 
too low, displayed the whole of the neck, and was therefore, 
as girls say ** rather indecent.'^ It was not the least in the 
world indecent, but it was prettier than the former fashion. 
She dressed herself in this way without knowing why. Was 
she going out ? No. Did she expect a visitor ! No. She 
went down into the garden as it grew dark ; she began walk- 
ing imder the branches, removing them from time to time 
with her hand, as some were very low, and thus reached the 



352 


LES MISEBABLES 


bench. The stone was still there, and she sat down and laid 
her beautiful white hand on the stone, as if to caress and 
thank it. All at once she had that indescribable feeling which 
people experience even without seeing, when some one is 
standing behind them. She turned her head and rose — ^it was 
he. He was bare-headed, and seemed pale and thin, and his 
black clotlies could be scarce distinguished. His face was lit up 
by the flush of departing day, and by the thoughts of an expir- 
ing soul. Cosettc though ready to faint, did not utter a cry ; 
she slowly recoiled, as she felt herself attracted, but he did 
not stir. Through the ineffable sadness that enveloped him 
she felt the glance of the eyes which she could not see. Cosette, 
in recoiling, came to a tree, and leaned against it ; had it not 
been for this tree she would have fallen. Then she heard his 
voice, that voice which she had really never heard before, scarce 
louder than the rustling of the foliage, as he murmured, — 

“ Pardon me for being here ; my heart is sw’ollen, I could 
not live as I was, and I have come. Have you read what I 
placed on the bench ? do you recognize me at all ? do not be 
frightened at me. Do you remember that day when you looked 
at me, now so long ago ? It was in the Luxembourg garden, 
near the Gladiator, and the days on which you passed before 
me were June 1 6 and J uly 2, it is nearly a year ago. I have not 
seen you again for a very long time. I fancied that I saw you 
pass once as 1 was reading the papers under the Od6on Arc^e, 
and ran after you, but no, it was a person wearing a bonnet 
like yours. At night I come here — ^fear nothing, no one 
sees me — and I walk very softly that you may not hear me, 
for you might be alarmed.^ The other evening I was behind 
you, you turned round, and I fled. You see you are my angel, 
BO let me come now and then, and I believe that I am going 
to die. If you only knew how I adore you ! But forgive me, 
I am speaking to you, I know not what I am saying, perhaps 
I offend you — do I offend you ? " — 

“ Oh, my mother ! " she said. 

And she sank down as if she were dpng. He seized her 
in his arms, and pressed her to his heart, not knowing what he 
did. He supported her while himself tottering. He felt as if 
his head were full of smoke ; flashes passed between his eye- 
lashes ; his ideas left him, and it seemed to him as if he were 
accomplishing a religious act, and yet committing a profana- 



LES MISEBABLES S5S 

tion. She took his hand, and laid it on her heart ; he felt the 
paper there and stammered, — 

“ You love me then ? " 

She answered in so low a voice, that it was almost an in- 
audible breath, — 

** Silence ! you know I do." 

And she hid her blushing face in the chest of the proud and 
intoxicated young man. He fell bn the bench, and she by his 
side. They no longer found words, and the stars were begin- 
ning to twinkle. How cadle it that their lips met ? How 
comes it that the by:d3 sing, the snow melts, the rose opens. May 
bursts into life, and the dawn grows white behind the black tree 
on the rustling tops of the hills ? One kiss, and that was all ; 
both trembled and gazed at each other in the darkness with 
flashing eyes. They neither felt the fresh night nor cold stone, 
nor the damp grass nor the moist soil, — ^they looked at each 
other, and their hearts were full of thoughts. Their hands were 
clasped without their cognizance. At intervals Cosette stam- 
mered a word ; her soul trembled on her lips like the dew-drop 
on a flower. 

Gradually they conversed, and expansiveness succeeded the 
silence which is plenitude. They told each other, with a can- 
did faith in their illusions all that love, youth, and the remnant 
of childhood which they still had, brought to their minds ; 
their two hearts were poured into each other, so that at the end 
of an hour the young man had the maiden's soul and the maiden 
his. They were mutually penetrated, enchanted, and dazzled. 
When they had finished, when they had told each other every- 
thing, she laid her head on hia^shouder and asked him, — 

“ What is your name ? 

" Marius," he said : “ and yours ? 

" Mine is Cosette." 


CHAPTER XVII 

Since 1823, while the public-house at Montfermeil was sink- 
ing, and gradually being swallowed up, not in the abyss of 
a bankruptcy, but in the sewer of small debts, the Th^nardiers 
had had two more children both male. These made five, two 
daughters and three boys, and they were a good many. The 
mother had got rid of the latter while still babies by a singular 

M 



354 


LES MISERABLES 


piece of good luck. Got rid of» that is exactly the term, for in 
this woman there was only a fragment of nature ; it is a phe-* 
nomenon, however, of which there is more than one instance. 
Like the Mar^chale de Lamothe-Houdancourt, the Thenardier 
was only a mother as far as her daughters, and her maternity 
ended there. Her hatred of the human race began with her 
sons ; on that side her cruelty was precipitous, and her heart 
had a lugubrious escarpment there. She detested the eldest, 
and execrated the two others. Why ? because she did. 
The most terrible of motives and most indisputable of answers 
is, Because. “ I do not want a pack ojE squalling brats, 
this mother said. 

Let us now explain how the Th^nardiers managed to dis- 
pose of their two last children, and even made a profit of 
them. Our readers remember the woman named Magnon who 
got an annuity out of old Gillenormand for two children she had. 
She lived on the Quai des Celestins, at the corner of that ancient 
Rue du Petit'Musc which has done all it could to change its 
bad reputation into a good odour. Many will also remember 
the great croup-epidemic, which, thirty-five years ago, desola- 
ted the banks of the Seine. In this epidemic Magnon lost her 
two boys, still very young, on the same day, one in the morning, 
the other in the evening. It was a blow, for these children 
were precious to their mother, as they represented eighty franca 
a month. When the children were dead the annuity was bur- 
ied, and so Magnon sought an expedient. She wanted two 
children, and Madame Th6nardier had two of the same size and 
age. The little Th6nardiers became the little Magnons, and 
Magnon left the Quai des Qelestins, and went to live in the 
Rue Cloche-Percee. Thenardier, however, demanded for this 
loan of children ten francs a month, which Magnon promised, 
and even paid. We need not say that M. Gillenormand con- 
tinued every six months to see the children. He did not notice 
the change. “ Oh, sir,'' Magnon would say to him, “ how like 
you they are, to be sure." 

Thenardier, to whom avatars were an easy task, seized this 
opportunity to become Jondrette. His two daughters and 
Gavroche had scarcely had time to perceive that they had 
two little brothers, for in a certain stage of misery people 
are affected by a sort of spectral indifference, and regard 
human beings as ghosts. Your nearest relatives are often to 



LES MISERABLES 


356 


you no more than vague forms of the shadow, hardly to be 
distinguished from the nebulous back-ground of life, and which 
easily become blended again with the invisible. The two 
little ones who had fallen into Magnon's clutches had no cause to 
complain ; recommended by the eighty francs, they were taken 
care of, like everything which brings in a profit ; they were 
not badly clothed, not badly fed, treated almost like little 
gentlemen," and better oS with their false mother than the 
true one. Magnon |icted the lady, and never talked slang 
in their presence. They spent several years there, and Thenar- 
dier augured well of it. One day ho happened to say to Mag- 
non as she handed liim the monthly ten francs, “ The * father ^ 
must give them an education.** 

All at once these two poor little creatures, hitherto toler- 
ably well protected, even by their evil destiny, were suddenly 
hurled into life, and forced to begin it. An arrest of criminals 
en masse, like that in the Jondrette garret, being necessarily 
complicated with researches and ulterior incarcerations, is a 
veritable disaster for that hideous and occult counter-society 
which lives beneath public society, and an adventure of this 
nature produces all sorts of convulsions in the gloomy world. 
The catastrophe of the Th6nardiers was the catastrophe of 
Magnon. One day, the police made a sudden descent on the 
Rue Cloche-Perc6e. Magnon was arrested, as was Mamselle 
Miss, a Gallicised English thief who resided with her, and 
all the inhabitants of the house which were suspected were 
caught in the haul. The two little boys were playing at 
the same time in the back-yard, and saw nothing of the razzia, 
but when they tried to go in they found the door locked and 
the house empty. A cobbler whose stall was opposite called to 
them and gave them a paper which " their mother " had 
left for them. On the paper was this address, ** M. Barge, 
receiver of rents. No, 8, Rue du Roi de Sicilc," The cobbler 
said to them, — You no longer live here. Go there, it is close 
by, the first street on your left. Ask your way with that paper.” 
The boys set oS, the elder leading the younger and holding 
in his hand the paper which was to serve as their guide. It 
was cold, and his little numbed fingers held the paper badly, 
and at the corner of a lane a puff of wind tore it from him, and 
as it was night the boy could not find it again. They began 
wandering about the streets hap*hazard. 



356 


LES MISEBABLES 


One evening, when the Spring breezes were blowing sharp- 
ly, so sharply that January seemed to have returned, and the 
citizens had put on their cloaks again, little Qavroche, still 
shivering gaily under his rags, was standing as if in ecstasy in 
front of a hair-dreaser^s shop in the vicinity of the Orme- 
Saint Gervais, He was adorned with a woman's woollen 
shawl, picked up no one knew where, of which he had made a 
belcher. Little Gavroche appeared to be lost in admiration 
of a waxen image of a bride, wearing a very low-necked dress, 
and a wreath of orange-flowers in her hair, which revolved 
between two lamps, and lavished its smiles on the passers-by ; 
but in reality he was watching to see whether he could not 
“ bone " a cake of soap, which he would afterwards sell for a 
half-penny to a barber in the suburbs. He frequently break- 
fasted on one of these cakes, and he called this style of work, 
for which ho had a talent, “ shaving the barber.” 

While Gavroche was examining the bride, the window, and 
the Windsor soap, two boys of unequal height, very decently 
dressed, and younger than himself, one apparently seven, the 
other five years of age, timidly turned the handle, and entered 
the shop, asking for something, charity possibly, in a plaintive 
murmur, which was more like a sob than a prayer. They 
both spoke together, and their words were unintelligible, 
because sobs choked the voice of the younger boy, and cold 
made the teeth of the elder rattle. The barber turned with a 
furious face, and without laying down his razor drove one 
into the street with his left hand, the other with his knee, 
and closed the door again. 

The two lads set out again, crymg : a cloud had come up 
in the meanwhile, and it began raining. Little Gavroche ran 
up to them, and accosted them thus, — 

“ What’s the matter with you, babes 1 ” 

“ We don’t know where to sleep,” the elder replied. 

“ Is that all ! ” said Qavroche, “ that's a great matter to 
cry about, you babes in the wood.” And assuming an accent 
of tender afiection and gentle protection, which was visible 
through his somewhat pompous superiority, he said, 

“ Come with me, brats.” 

“ Yes, sir,” said the elder boy. 

And the two children followed him as they would have 
done an archbishop, and left off crying. Qavroche led them 



LES MISEBABLES 


367 


along the Rue St Antoine, in the direction of the Bastille, and 
while going o£E took an indignant and retrospective glance at 
the barber's shop. 

The two children limped after him, and as they passed one 
of those thick, close gratings which indicate a baker's, for 
bread like gold is placed behind a grating, Gavroche turned 
round. 

“ By the bye, brats, have yon dined ? " 

“ We have had nothing to eat, sir, since early this morn- 
ing," the elder answered. , 

“ Then you haven't either father or mother ? " Gavroche 
continued magisterially. 

I beg your pardon, sir ; we have a pa and a ma, but we, 
don't know where they are.” 

“ And so we have lost our authors. We don't know what 
we have done with them. That isn't the right thing, brats, 
and you didn't ought to turn grown-up people out to grass in 
that way. Well, I suppose I must find them a shake-down. 
But let's see if we can find anything for supper." 

He stopped, and for some minutes searched all sorts of 
corners which he had in his rags ; at length he raised his head 
with an air which only wished to be satisfied, but was in reality 
triumphant, — 

“ Calm yourself, my infants ; here is supper for three." 

And he drew a sou from one of his pockets ; without giving the 
lads time to feel amazed, he pushed them both before him into 
the baker's shop, and laid his sou on the counter, exclaiming, — 

“ Boy, five centimes' worth of bread." 

The baker, who was the master in person, took up a loaf 
and a knife. * 

“ In three pieces, my boy," Gavroche remarked, and he 
added with dignity, — 

** We are three." 

When the bread was cut, the baker put the sou into the till, 
and Gavroche said to the two boys, — 

" Grub away." 

The boys looked at him in surprise, and Gavroche burst 
into a laugh. 

“ Shove that into your musket." 

There was one piece smaller than the two others, and he 
took that for himselfi The poor boys, Gavroche included, 



358 


LES MISERABLES 


were starving ; while tearing the bread with their teeth, they 
blocked up the baker's shop, who, now that he was paid, looked 
at them angrily. 

As they were finishing their bread, they reached the comer 
of that morose Rue de Ballet at the end of which the low and 
hostile wicket of la Force is visible. 

“ Hilloh, is that you, Gavroche ? " some one said. 
Hilloh, is that you, Montparnasse ? " said Gavroche. 

It was a man who accosted Gavroche, no other than Mont- 
parnasse disguised with blue spectacles, but Gavroche was able 
to recognize him. 

“ My eye ! " Gavroche went on, ** you have a skin of the 
colour of a linseed poultice, and blue spectacles like a doctor. 
That's your style, on the word of an old man ! " 

“ Silence ! Do you know where I am going ? " 

To the abbey of Go-up-with-regret *' (the scaffold) said 
Gavroche. 

" I am going to meet Babet." 

" I thought he was buckled up.” 

” He has unfastened the buckle,” Montparnasse replied. 

And he hurriedly told the boy that, on that very morning, 
Babet, while being removed to the Conciergerie, escaped by 
turning to the left instead of the right in the ” police office 
passage." 

Gavroche, while talking, had seized a cane which Montpar- 
nasse held in his hand : he mechanically pulled at the upper 
part, and a dagger blade became visible. 

The deuce ! ” Gavroche continued, “ are you going to 
have a tum-up with the slops ? ” 

“ There's no knowing,” Montparnasse answered carelessly, 
” it's always as well to have a pin about you.” 

Gavroche pressed him. 

” What are you going to do to-night ? ” 

Montparnasse again became serious, and said, mincing his 
words, — 

” Some things, but where are you going now ? ” Mont- 
parnasse asked. 

Gavroche pointed to his two proteges, and said,-— 

” I am gomg to put these two children to bed.'^ 

** Have you a lodging 1 

‘‘ Yes.” 



LES MISERABLES 


S69 


« Where 

"Inside the elephant,” said Gavroche. 

Montparnasse, though naturally not easy to astonish, could 
not refrain from the exclamation, 

“ Inside the elephant ? 

" Yes ! There are no draughts as there are under the 
bridges.” 

" How do you get in — is there a hole ? " 

" Of course there is, but you have no need to mention it ; 
it's between the frdnt legs, and the bobbies don't know it.” 

" And you climb in ? I understand.” 

" One turn, crio* crac, it's done, and there’s no one to be 
seen.” 

After a pause Gavroche added, — 

" I shall have a ladder for these young ones.” 

Montparnasse burst into a laugh. 

" Where the devil did you pick up those brats ? ” 

" A barber made me a present of them.” 

In the meanwhile Montparnasse had become pensive. 

" You recognized me very easily,” he said. 

He took from his pocket two small objects, which were 
quills wrapped in cotton, and thrust one into each nostril ; 
they made him quite a different nose. 

” That changes you,” said Gavroche ; " you are not so ugly 
now, and you ought to keep them in for good.” 

Montparnasse was a handsome fellow, but Gavroche was 
fond of a joke. 

" Well, goodnight,” ho said ; " I am off to my elephant 
with my brats. Should you happen to want me any night 
you'll ^d me there. I lodge in»the entresol, and there's no 
porter ; ask for Monsieur Gavroche.” 

Twenty years back there might have been seen in the south- 
eastern corner of the square of the Bastille, near the canal 
dock, dug in the old moat of the citadel-prison, a quaint monu- 
ment, which has already been effaced from the memory of 
Parisians, and which should have left some trace, as it was an 
idea of the " Member of the Institute, Commander-in-chief of 
the army of Egypt.” It was an elephant, forty feet high, 
constructed of carpentry and masonry, bearing on its back a 
castle which resembled a house, once painted green by some 
plasterer, and now painted black by the heavens, the rain, 



360 


LES MISERABLES 


and time. In this deserted and uncovered corner of the square 
the wide forehead of the colossus, its trunk, its tusks, its castle, 
its enormous back, and its four feet like columns, produced at 
night upon the starlit sky a surprising and terrible outline. 
It was unclean, despised, repulsive, and superb ; ugly in the 
eyes of cits, but melancholy in the eyes of the thinker. It 
had something about it of the ordure which is swept away, 
and something of the majesty which is decapitated. 

On coming near the colossus Gavroche understood the 
effect which the infinitely great may produce on the infinitely 
little, and said, — 

“ Don't be frightened, brats.” 

Then he went through a hole in the palings into the ground 
round the elephant, and helped the children to pass through 
the breach. The lads, a little frightened, followed Gavroche 
without a word, and confided in this little Providence in 
rags who had given them bread and promised them a bed. 
A ladder, employed by workmen at the column by day, was 
lying along the palings ; Gavroche raised it with singular 
vigour, and placed it against one of the elephant's fore legs. 
At the point where the ladder ended a sort of black hole could 
be distinguished in the belly of the colossus. Gavroche pointed 
out the ladder and the hole to his guests, and said, Go 
up, and go in.” The two little boys looked at each other in 
terror. 

“ You are frightened, brats ! ” Gavroche exclaimed, and 
added, ” you shall see.” 

Ho clung round the elephant's wrinkled foot, and in a 
twinkling, without deigning to employ the ladder, he reached 
the hole. He went in like &amp; lizard gliding into a crevice, and 
a moment after the boys saw his head, like a white, livid form 
on the edge of the hole, which was full of darkness. 

** Well,” he cried, “ come up my blessed babes. You will 
see how snug it is. Come up, you,” he said to the elder. “ I 
will hold your hand.” 

The little boys nudged each other, for the gamin at once 
frightened and reassured them, and then it was raining very 
bard. The elder boy ventured, and the younger, on seeing his 
brother ascending and himself left alone between the feet of 
this great beast, felt greatly inclined to cry, but did not dare. 
The elder climbed up the rungs of the ladder in a very totter- 



LES MISERABLES 


361 


tng way, and as he did so Gavroche encouraged him by exclam- 
ations of a fencing-master to his pupils, or of a muleteer to his 
mules. 

“ Don’t be frightened — ^that is it — ^keep on moving — set 
your foot there — now, your hand here — bravo ! ” 

And when he was within reach he quickly and powerfully 
seized him by the arm and drew him to him. 

“ Swallowed ! ” he said. 

The boy had passed through the crevice. 

“ Now,” said Gavroche? “ wait for me. Pray sit down, 
sir.” 

And, leaving the hole in the same way as he had entered it, 
he slid down the elephant’s leg with the agility of a squirrel, 
fell on his feet in the grass, seized the youngest boy round 
the waist and planted him on the middle of the ladder ; then 
he began ascending behind him, shouting to the elder boy. 

“ I'll push him, and you’ll pull him.” 

In a second the little fellow was pushed up, dragged, pulled, 
and drawn through the hole before he knew where he was, 
and Gavroche, entering after him, kicked away the ladder, 
which fell in the grass, and clapped his hands as he shouted, 
“ There we are ! long live General Lafayette ! ” This explosion 
over, he added, “ Brats, you are in my house.” 

The hole by which Gavroche entered was a breach scarce 
visible from the outside, as it was concealed, as we said, under 
the elephant’s belly, and so narrow that only cats and boys 
could pass through it. 

On entering he plunged again into the darkness, and the 
children heard the phizzing of a.match dipped into a bottle 
of phosphorus, for lucifer matches did not yet exist. A sud- 
den light made them wink. Gavroche had lit one of those 
rope’s-ends dipped in pitch which are called “ cellar rats : 
and this thing, which smoked more than it illumined, rendered 
the inside of the elephant indistinctly visible. Gavroche’s 
two guests looked around them, and had much such a feeling 
as one would experience if shut up in the biblical belly of the 
wliale. An entire gigantic skeleton was visible to them and 
enveloped them ; above their heads a large brown beam, from 
which sprang at regular distances massive cross bars, repre- 
sented the spine with the ribs ; stalactites of plaster hung down 
like viscera, and vast spider webs formed from one side to the 



362 


LES MISEBABLES 


other dusty diaphragms. Here and there in corners could be 
seen large black spots which seemed alive, and changed plaices 
rapidly, with a quick and startled movement. The pieces 
which had fallen from the elephant’s back on its belly had 
filled up the concavity, so that it was possible to walk on it as 
on a flooring. 

Gavroche’s bed was perfect, that is to say, there was a 
mattress, a coverlet, and an alcove with curtains. The mat- 
tress was a straw mat, and the coverlet was a rather wide 
wrapper of coarse, grey wool, very warm, and nearly new. 
This is what the alcove was, — three long props were driven 
securely into the plaster soil, that is to say, the elephant’s 
belly, two in front and one behind, and were fastened by a 
cord at the top, so as to form a hollow pyramid. These props 
supported a grating of brass wire, simply laid upon them, but 
artistically fastened with iron wire, so that it entirely surround- 
ed the three poles. A row of large stones fastened the lattice- 
work down to the ground, so that nothing could pass, and this 
lattice was merely a piece of the brass work put up in aviaries 
in menageries. Gavroclie’s bed was under the wire-work as 
in a cage, and the whole resembled an Esquimaux’s tent. Gav- 
roche moved a few of the stones' that held down the lattice- 
work in fiont, and shouted to the lads, — 

“ Now then, on all fours.” 

He made his guests enter the cage cautiously, then went in 
after them, brought the stones together again, and hermetically 
closed the opening. They lay down all three on the mat, and 
though they were all so short, not one of them could stand 
upright in the alcove. Gavroche still held the ” cellar rat ” in 
his hand. 

“ What is that, sir ? ” the elder of the lads asked Gavroche, 
pointing to the iDrass grating. 

” That,” said Gavroche gravely, “ is on account of the rats. 
Go to roost ! ” 

While speaking he wrapped up the little boy in the blanket 
who murmured, — 

Oh, that is nice, it’s so warm ! ” 

Gavroche took a glance of satisfaction at the coverlet. 

“ That and the brass grating come from the Jardin des 
Plantes,” he said, “ I nobbled them from the monkeys.” 

The two lads gazed with a timid and stupefied respect at 



LES MISEBABLES 


363 


this intrepid and inventive being, a vagabond like them, 
isolated like them, weak like them, who had something ad- 
mirable about him, who appeared to them supernatural, and 
whose face was composed of all the grimaces of an old mounte- 
bank, mingled with the simplest and most charming smile. 

The two lads crept close together ; Gavroche made them 
all right on the mat, and pulled the blanket up to their ears ; 
then he repeated for a second time in the hieratic language, 
“ Roost.” 

And he blew out the rope's end. The light was scarce ex- 
tinguished ere a singular trembling began to shake the trellice- 
work under which the three children were lying. It was a 
multitude of dull rubbings which produced a metallic sound, 
as if claws and teeth were assailing the copper wire, and this 
was accompanied by all sorts of little shrill cries. The little 
boy of five years of age, hearing this noise above his head, 
and chilled with terror, nudged his elder brother, but he was 
‘‘ roosting ” already, as Gavroche had ordered him ; then the 
little one, unable to hold out any longer for fright, dared to 
address Gavroche, but in a very low voice and holding his 
breath. 

“ What is that ? ” 

“ It's the rats,” Gavroche answered. 

And he laid his head again on the mat. The rats, which 
were really by thousands in the elephant's carcase, and were 
the live black spots to which we have alluded, had been held in 
check by the flame of the link so long as it was alight, but so 
soon as this cavern, which was, so to speak, their city, had 
been restored to night, sniffing what that famous story-teller, 
Perrault, calls “ fresh meat,” they rushed in bands to Gav- 
roche's tent, climbed to the top, and were biting the meshes, as 
if trying to enter this novel sort of trap. 

“ Don't be frightened, they can't get in. And, then, I am 
here. Stay, take my hand, hold your tongue and sleep.” 

Gavroche at the same time took the boy's hand across his 
brother, and the child pressed the hand against his body and 
felt reassured, for courage and strength have mysterious com- 
munications. Silence had set in again around them, the sound 
of voices had startled and driven away the rats, and when they 
returned a few minutes later and furiously attacked, the 
three boys, plunged in sleep, heard nothing more. The night 



364 LES MISERABLES 

hours passed away; darkness covered the immense Bastille 
Square. 

Towards the end of the hour which immediately precedes 
daybreak, a man came running out of the Rue St. Antoine 
crossed the square, went round the great enclosure of the column 
of July, and slipped through the palings under the elephant's 
belly. On getting under the elephant he twice uttered a pecu- 
liar cry, which belongs to no human language, and which a 
parrot alone could reproduce. At the second cry a clear, gay, 
and young voice answered from tke elephant's belly, “ Yes ! ** 
Almost immediately the plank that closed the hole was re- 
moved, and left a passage for a lad, who* slid down the ele- 
phant's leg and fell at the man's feet. It was Gavroche, and 
the man was Montparnasse. 

“ We want you, come and give us a help," said the latter. 

The gamin asked for no other explanation. 

Here I am," he said. 

And the pair proceeded toward the Rue St. Antoine, whence 
Montparnasse had come. 

CHABTER XVIII 

This is what occurred on this same night at la Force. An 
escape had been concerted between Babet, Brujon, Gueulemer 
and Thenardier, although Thenardier was in secret confinement. 
Babet had managed the affair on his own account during the 
day, as Montparnasse had told Gavroche, and Montparnasse 
was to help them outside. Brujon, another bandit, while 
spending a month in a punishment room, had time to make a 
rope, and to ripen a plan. Formerly, these severe places, in 
which prison discipline leaves the prisoner to himself, were 
composed of four stone walls, a stone ceiling, a brick pave- 
ment, a camp-bed, a grated sky-light, and a gate lined with 
iron, and were called dungeons ; but the dungeon was con- 
sidered too horrible, so now it is composed of an iron gate, a 
grated sky-light, a camp-bed, a brick pavement, a stone ceiling, 
four stone walls, and it is called a “ punishment room." A 
little day-light is visible about mid-day. The inconvenience of 
these rooms, which, as we see, are not dungeons, is to leave 
beings to think who ought to be set to work. Brujon, there- 
fore, reflected, and be left the punishment room with a cord. 



LES MISEBABLES 


365 


As be was considered very dangerous in the Charlemagne yard, 
he was placed in the New Building, and the first thing he found 
there was Gueulemer, the second a nail ; Gueulemer, that 
is to say, crime ; and a nail, that is to say, liberty. 

Brujon, of whom it is necessary to form a complete idea, was, 
with the appearance of a delicate complexion and a deeply 
premeditated languor, a polished, intelligent robber, who pos- 
sessed a caressing look and an atrocious smile. His look was 
the result of his will, and his smile the result of his nature. 
His first studies in his art jv^ere directed to roofs, and he had 
given a great impulse to the trade of lead-stealers, who strip 
roofs and carry aWay gutters by the process called au gras 
double. What finally rendered the moment favourable for an 
attempted escape was that workmen were at this very moment 
engaged in re-laying and re-tipping the prison slates. The 
Saint Bernard was not absolutely isolated from the Charle- 
magne and St. Louis yards, for there were on the roof scaffolding 
and ladders, in other words, bridges and staircases, on the side of 
deliverance. The New Building, which was the most cracked 
and decrepit affair possible to imagine, was the weak point of 
the building. Saltpetre had so gnawn the walls that it had 
been found necessary to prop up and shore the ceilings of the 
dormitories, because stones became detached and fell on the 
prisoners' beds. In spite of this antiquity, the error was 
committed of confining in the New Building the most dangerous 
prisoners, and placing in it the “ heavy cases," as is said in the 
prison jargon. The New Building contained four sleeping- 
wards, one above the other, and a garret-floor called the “ Fine 
Air." A ’large stove pipe, probably belonging to some old 
kitchen of the Dues de la Force, started from the ground-floor, 
passed through the four storeys, cut in two the sleeping 
wards, in which it figured as a sort of flattened pillar, and 
issued through a hole in the roof. Gueulemer and Brujon 
were in the same ward, and had been placed through precau- 
tion on the ground-floor. Accident willed it that the head of 
their beds rested against the stove pipe. Th6nardier was 
exactly above their heads in the attic called Fine Air. 

The passer-by, who stops in the Rue Culture Sainte Cath- 
erine, after passing the Fireman's barracks, and in front of the 
Bath-house gateway, sees a court-yard full of flowers and shrubs 
in boxes, at the end of which is a small white rotunda with two 



366 


LES MISEBABLES 


wings, enlivened by green shatters, the bucolic dream of Jean 
Jacques. Not ten years ago there rose above this rotunda a 
black, enormous, frightful, naked wall, which was the outer 
wall of la Force. This wall behind this rotunda was like a 
glimpse of Milton caught behind Berquin. High though it 
was, this wall was surmounted by an even blacker roof, which 
could be seen beyond, — ^it was the roof of the New Building. 

Four dormer windows protected by bars could be seen in 
it, and they were the windows of Fine Air, and a chimney 
passed through the roof, which wa 5 |,the chimney of the sleeping- 
wards. Fine Air, the attic-floor of the New Building, was a 
species of large hall, closed with triple gratings and iron-lined 
doors, starred with enormous nails. When you entered by the 
north end, you had on your left the four dormers, and on your 
right, facing these, four square and spacious cages separated 
by narrow passages, built up to breast-height of masonry, and 
the rest to the roof of iron bars. Thenardier had been confined 
in solitary punishment since the night of Feb 3. It was never 
discovered how, or by what connivance, he succeeded in pro- 
curing and concealing a bottle of that prepared wine, invented, 
so 'tis said, by Desrues, in which a narcotic is mixed, and which 
the band of the Endormeurs rendered celebrated. There 
are in many prisons treacherous turnkeys, half gaolers, half 
robbers, who assist in escapes, sell to the police a faithless 
domesticity, and “ make the handle of the salad-basket dance." 

On this very night, then, when little Gavroche picked up 
the two straying children, Brujon and Gueulemer, who knew 
that Babet, who had escaped that same morning, was waiting 
for them in the street with Montparnasse, gently rose, and 
began breaking open with ag nail which Brujon had found the 
stove-pipe against which their beds were. The rubbish fell 
on Brujon's bed, so that it was not heard, and the gusts of 
wind mingled with the thunder shook the doors on their hinges, 
and produced a frightful and hideous row in the prison. 
Those prisoners who awoke pretended to fall asleep again, and 
left Brujon and Gueulemer to do as they pleased ; and Brujon 
was skilful and Gueulemer was vigorous. Before any sound 
had reached the watchman sleeping in the grated cell which 
looked into the ward, the wall was broken through, the chim- 
ney escaladed, the iron trellice-work which closed the upper 
opening of the chimney forced, and the two formidable bandits 



LES MISEBABLES 867 

were on the roof. The rain and the wind were tremendous 
and the roof was slippery. 

What a fine night for an escape ! ** said Brujon. 

An abyss of six feet in width and eighty feet deep separ- 
ated them from the surrounding wall, and at the bottom of 
this abyss they could see a sentry's musket gleaming in the 
darkness. They fastened to the ends of the chimney bars 
which they had just broken the rope which Brujon had woven 
in the cell, threw the other end over the outer wall, crossed 
the abyss at a bound, cli^ng to the coping of the wall, be- 
straddled it, glided in turn along the rope to a little roof which 
joins the Bath-house, pulled their rope to them, jumped into 
the yard of the Bath-house, pulled the porter's string, 
opened the gateway, and found themselves in the street. Not 
three-quarters of an hour had elapsed since they were standing 
on the bed, nail in band, and with their plan in their heads ; a 
few minutes after, they had rejoined Babct and Montparnasse, 
who were prowling in the neighbourhood. On drawing the 
cord to them they broke it, and a piece had remained fastened 
to the chimney on the roof, but they had met with no other 
accident beyond almost entirely skinning their fingers. On 
this night Th^nardier was warned, though it was impossible 
to discover how, and did not go to sleep. At about one in the 
morning, when the night was very black, he saw two shadows 
passing in the rain and gusts, the window opposite his cage. 
One stopped just long enough to give a look ; it was Brujon. 
Thenardier saw him, and understood — that was enough for 
him. Th6nardier, reported to be a burglar, and detained on 
the charge' of attempting to obtain money at night by violence, 
was kept under constant watch, And a sentry, relieved every 
two hours, walked in front of his cage with a loaded musket. 
The Fine Air was lighted by a sky-light, and the prisoner had 
on his feet a pair of fetters weighing fifty pounds. Every day 
at four in the afternoon, a turnkey, escorted by two mastiffs — 
such things still happened at that day — entered his cage, 
placed near his bed a black loaf of two pounds' weight, a water- 
jug, and a bowl of very’weak broth in which a few beans floated, 
inspected his fetters, and tapped the bars. This man with his 
dogs returned twice during the night. 

Thenardier had obtained permission to keep a sort of iron 
pin which be used to nail his bread to the wall, in order as he 



368 


LES MISEBABLE8 


said, “ to preserve it from the rats.” As Thenardier was under 
a constant watch, this pin did not seem dangerous : still it 
was remembered at a later day that a turnkey said, “ It 
would have been better only to leave him a wooden skewer.” 
At two in the morning the sentry, who was an old soldier, was 
changed, and a recruit substituted for him. A few minutes 
after, the man with the dogs paid his visit, and went away 
without having noticed anything, except the youth and peasant 
look of the ” Tourlourou.” Two hours after, when they came 
to relieve this conscript, they found,him asleep, and lying like a 
log by the side of Thteardier's cage. As for the prisoner, 
he was no longer there ; his several fetters lay on the ground, 
and there was a hole in the ceiling of his cage, and another 
above it in the roof. A plank of his bed had been tom out 
and carried off, for it could not be found. In the cell was also 
found the half-empty bottle, containing the rest of the drugged 
wine with which the young soldier had been sent to sleep. The 
soldier's bayonet* had disappeared. At the moment when all 
this was discovered, Thenardier was supposed to be out of 
reach ; the truth was, that he was no longer in the New 
Building, but was still in great danger. Thenardier, on reach- 
ing the roof of the New Building, found the remainder of 
Brujon's rope hanging from the chimney bars, but as the 
broken cord was much too short, he was unable to cross the 
outer wall as Brujon and Gueulemer had done. 

When you turn out of the Rue des Ballets into the Rue dn 
Roi de Sicile, you notice almost directly on your right a 
dirty hole. In the last century a house stood here, of wliich 
only the back wall exists, a perfect ruin of a wall which rises 
to the height of a third storey between the adjacent buildings. 
This ruin can be recognized by two large square windows, still 
visible ; the centre one, the one nearest the right-hand gable, 
is barred by a shored-up beam, and through these windows 
could be seen, formerly, a lofty lugubrious wall, which was a 
portion of the outer wall of la Force. The gap which the 
demolished house has left in the street is half filled up with 
a hoarding of rotten planks, supported by five stone pillars, 
and inside is a small hut built against the still standing ruin. 
The hoarding has a door in it, which, a few years ago, was 
merely closed with a hasp. It was the top of this ruin which 
Thenardier had attained a little after three in the morning. 



LES MISEBABLES 


How did he get there ? This was never explained or under- 
stood. The lightning flashes must at once have impeded and 
helped him. Did he employ the ladders and scaflolding of 
the slaters to pass from roof to roof, over the buildings of 
the Charlemagne yard, those of the St. Louis yard, the outer, 
and thence reach the ruined wall in the Rue du Roi de Sicile ? 
But there were in this passage solutions of continuity, which 
seemed to render it impossible. Had he laid the plank from 
his bed as a bridge from the roof of Fine Air to the outer 
wall, and crawled on his ij};omach along the coping, all round 
the prison till he reached the ruin ? But the outer wall of 
la Force was very* irregular, it rose and sank ; it was low at 
the Sappers' barracks, and rose again at the Bath-house ; it 
was intersected by buildings, and had everywhere drops and 
right angles ; and then, too, the sentries mxist have seen the 
fugitive's dark outline, — and thus the road taken by Thenar- 
dier remains almost inexplicable. Had he, illumined by that 
frightful thirst for liberty which changes precipices into 
moats, iron bars into reeds, a cripple into an athlete, a gouty 
patient into a bird, stupidity into instinct, instinct into in- 
tellect, and intellect into genius, invented and improvised a 
third mode of escape ? No one ever knew. 

It is not always possible to explain the marvels of an es- 
cape ; the man who breaks prison is, we repeat, inspired, 
there is a flash in the mysterious light of the flight ; the ef- 
fort made for deliverance is no less surprise than the soar- 
ing toward the sublime, and people say of an escaped robber, 

How did he manage to scale that roof ? " in the same way 
as they say of Corneille, “ Where did he find his qu'il mourut ? * 
However this may be, Thenardior, dripping with perspiration, 
wet through with rain, with his clothes in rags, his hands 
scarified, Ins elbows bleeding, and his knees lacerated, reached 
the ruin-wall, lay down full length on it, and then his strength 
failed him. A perpendicular wall as high as a three-storeyed 
house separated him from the street, and the rope he had 
was too short. He waited there, pale, exhausted, des- 
pairing, though just now so hopeful, still covered by night, 
but saying to himself that day would soon come ; horri- 
fied at the thought that he should shortly hear it strike 
four from the neighbouring clock of St Paul, the hour when 
the sentry would be changed, and be found asleep under the 



370 


LES MISEBABLES 


hole in the roof. Thinardier regarded with stupor at such 
a depth below, and in the light of the lamps, the wet black 
pavement — ^that desired and terrific pavement which was 
death, and which was liberty. He asked himself whether his 
three accomplices had succeeded in escaping, whether they 
were waiting for him, and if they would come to his help ? 
He listened ; excepting a patrol, no one had passed through 
the street since he had been lying there. Nearly all the 
market carts from Montreuil, Charonne, Vincennes, and 
Bercy came into town by the Rue St Antoine. 

Four o'clock struck, and Th6nardier trembled. A few 
minutes after, the startled and confused neise which follows 
the discovery of an escape broke out in the prison. The 
sound of doors being opened and shut, the creaking of gates 
on their hinges, the tumult at the guard-room, and the clang of 
musket-butts on the pavement of the yards, reached his ears ; 
lights flashed past the grated windows of the sleeping wards 
a torch ran along the roof of the New Building, and the sappers 
were called out. Three caps which the torch lit up in the rain, 
came and went along the roofs, and at the same time Thenardier 
saw, in the direction of the Bastille, a livid gleam mournfully 
whitening the sky. He was on the top of a wall ten inches 
wide, lying in the pitiless rain, with a gulf on his right hand 
and on his left, unable to stir, sufiering from the dizziness of 
a possible fall and the horror of a certain arrest, and his mind 
like the clapper of a bell, went from one of these ideas to the 
other : “ Dead if I fall, caught if I remain." In this state of 
agony he suddenly saw, in the still perfectly dark street, a man, 
who glided along the walls and came back from -the Rue 
Pav6e, stop in the gap over which Thdnardier was, as it were, 
suspended. This man was joined by a second, who walked 
with similar caution, then by a third, and then by a fourth. 
When these men were together, one of them raised the hasp 
of the hoarding gate, and all four entered the enclosure where 
the hut is, and stood exactly under Th4nardier. These men 
had evidently selected this place to consult in, in order not 
to be seen by passers-by, or the sentry guarding the wicket 
of la Force a few paces distant. We must say, too, that the 
rain kept this sentry confined to his box. Thenardier, un- 
able to distinguish their faces, listened to their remarks with 
the desparate attention of a wretch who feels himself lost. 



LES MISEBABLES 


871 


He felt Bomething like hope pass before his eyes, when he 
heard these men talking slang. The first said, in a low voice, 
but distinctly, something which we had better translate. 

Let us be off. What are we doing here ? ” 

The second replied, — 

It is raining hard enough to put out the fire of hell. 
And then the police will pass soon ; besides, there is a sentry 
on. We shall get ourselves arrested here." 

Two words employed, icigo and icicaiUe, which both mean 
here, and which belong, ijie first to the flash language of the 
barricres, and the second to that of the Temple, were rays of 
light for Thenardier, By the icigo he recognized Erujon, who 
was a prowler at the barrieres, and by icicaille Babet, who, 
among all his other trades, had been a second-hand clothes- 
dealer at the Temple. The antique slang of the great century 
is only talked now at the Temple, and Babet was the only 
man who spoke it in its purity. Had it not been for the 
icicaille, Thenardier could not have recongnized him, for he 
had completely altered his voice. In the mean while the 
third man had interfered. 

“ There is nothing to hurry us; so let us wait a little. 
What is there to tell us that he docs not want us ? " 

Through this, which was only French, Thenardier recog- 
nized Montparnasse, whose pride it was to understand all 
the slang dialects, and not speak one of them. As for the 
fourth man, he held his tongue, but his wide shoulders de- 
nounced him, and Thenardier did not hesitate ; it was Gueule- 
mer. Brujon replied almost impetuously, but still in a low 
voice, — ’ 

“ What is that you are saying 1 The landlord has not 
been able to escape. A man must be a clever hand to tear 
up his shirt and cut his sheets in slips to make a rope ; to 
make holes in doors; manufacture false papers; make false 
keys ; file his fetters through ; hang his rope out of the win- 
dow ; hide and disguise himself. The old chap cannot have 
done this, for he does not know how to work." 

Babet added, still in the correct classic slang which Poiail- 
ler and Cartouche spoke, and which is to the new, bold, and 
coloured slang which Brujon employed what the language of 
Bacine is to that of Andr6 Chenier. 

Your landlord has been caught in the act, for he is only 



372 


LES MISEBABLES 


an apprentice. He has let himself be duped by a spy, per- 
haps by a sheep, who played the pal. Listen, Montparnasse ; 
do you hear those shouts in the prison ? You saw all those 
candles; he is caught again, and will get oil with twenty 
years. I am not frightened, I am no coward, as is well 
known, but there is nothing to be done, and we shall be 
trapped. Do not feel offended, but come with us, and let 
us drink a bottle of old wine together.'' 

“ Friends must not be left in a difficulty," Montparnasse 
growled. 

“ I tell you he is caught again," Brujon resumed, “ and 
at this moment the landlord is not worth a halfpenny. We 
can do nothing for him, so let us be off. I feel at every mo- 
ment as if a policeman were holding me in his hand." 

Montparnasse resisted but feebly ; the truth is, that these 
four men, with the fidelity which bandits have of never de- 
serting each other, had prowled the whole night round la 
Force, in spite of the peril they incurred, in the hope of see- 
ing Thenardier appear on the top of some wall. But the 
night which became really too favourable, for the rain ren- 
dered all the streets deserted, the cold which attacked them, 
their dripping clothes, their worn-out shoes, the alarming 
noises which had broken out in the prison, the hours which 
had elapsed, the patrols they had met, the hope which de- 
parted, and the fear that returned, — all this urged them to 
retreat. Montparnasse himself, who was perhaps ThSnardier's 
son-in-law in a certain sense, yielded, and in a moment they 
would be gone. Thenardier gasped on his wall as the ship- 
wrecked crew of the MHuse did on their raft, when they 
watched the ship which they had sighted, fade away on the 
horizon. He did not dare call to them, for a cry overheard 
might ruin everything, but he had an idea, a last idea, an in- 
spiration, — he took from his pocket the end of Brujon's rope, 
which he had detached from the chimney of the New Budd- 
ing, and threw it at their feet* 

“ A cord ! " said Babet. 

" My cord ! " said Brujon. 

The landlord is there," said Montparnasse. They raised 
their eyes, and Thenardier thrust out his head a little. 

** Quiet," said Montparnasse ; " have you the other end of 
the rope, Brujon \ " 



LES MISEBABLES 


873 


Yes.” 

“ Fasten the two ends together, we will throw the rope 
to him, he will attach it to the wall, and it will be long enough 
for him to come down.” 

Thenardier ventured to raise his voice, — 

“ I am wet through.” 

We'll warm you.” 

“ I cannot stir.” 

“ You will slip down, and we will catch you.'^ 

My hands are swollen.” 

“ Only just fasten the rope to the wall.” 

** I can't.” 

“ One of us must go up,” said Montparnasse. 

“ Three storeys ! ” Brujon ejaculated. 

An old plaster conduit pipe, which had served as a chim- 
ney for a stove, formerly lit in the hut, ran along the wall 
almost to the spot where Thenardier was lying. This pipe, 
which at that day was full of cracks and holes, has since fallen 
down, but its traces may be seen. It was very nap:ow. 

“ It would be possible to mount by that,” said M^tpar- 
nasse. 

“ By that pipe ? ” Babet exclaimed ; “ a man i oh no, a 
boy is required.” 

“ Yes, a boy,” Brujon said in affirmative. 

“ Where can we find one ? ” Gueulemer said. 

“ Wait a minute,” Montparnasse said, “ I have it.” 

He gently opened the hoarding door, assured himself that 
there wa^ no passer-by in the street, went out, shut the gate 
cautiously after him, and ran off in the direction of the Bas- 
tille. Seven or eight minutes elapsed, eight thousand cen- 
turies for Thenardier ; Babet, Brujon, and Gueulemer did not 
open their lips : the door opened again, and Montparnasse 
came in, panting and leading Gavroche. The rain continued 
to make the street completely deserted. Little Gavroche 
stepped into the enclosure, and looked calmly at the faces of 
the bandits. The rain was dripping from his hair, and Gueule- 
mer said to him, — 

** Brat, are you a man ? ” 

Gavroche shrugged his shoulders, and replied, — 

** A child like me is a man, and men like you are chil- 
dren.” 



S74 LES MISEBABLES 

“ What a well-hung tongue the brat has ! " Babet ex- 
claimed. 

“ The boy of Paris is not made of wet paste/' Brujon 
added, 

“ What do you want of me ? " said Gavroche. 

Montparnasse answered — 

“ Climb up that pipe/' 

** With this rope,” Babet remarked. 

** And fasten it,” Brujon continued. 

At the top of the wall,” Babe!, added. 

” To the cross bar of the window,” Brujon said, finally. 

“ What next ? ” asked Gavroche. 

“ Here it is,” said Gueulemer. 

The gamin examined the rope, the chimney, the wall, and 
the window, and gave that indescribable and disdainful smack 
of the lips which signifies, “ What is it ? ” 

** There is a man up there whom you will save,” Montpar- 
nase continued, — 

“ Are you willing ? ” Brujon asked. 

“ Ass ! ” the lad replied, as if the question seemed to him 
extraordinary, and took off his shoes. 

Gueulemer seized Gavroche by one arm, placed him on 
the roof of the pent-house, where mouldering planks bent 
under the boy's weight, and handed him the rope, which Bru- 
jon had joined again during the absence of Montparnasse. 
The gamin turned to the chimney, which it was an easy task 
to enter by a large crevice close to the roof. At the moment 
when he was going to ascend, Th^nardier, who saw safety and 
life approaching, leant over the edge of the wall ; the first 
gleam of day whitened his dark forehead, his livid cheek- 
bones, his sharp savage nose, and his bristling grey beard, 
and Gavroche recognized him. 

“ Hilloh ! ” he said, “ it's my father ; well, that won't stop 
me.” 

And, taking the rope between his teeth, he resolutely 
commenced his ascent. He reached the top of the wall, 
straddled across it like a horse, and securely fastened the 
rope to the topmast cross bar of the window. A moment 
after, Thenardier was in the street. So soon as he touched 
the pavement, so soon as he felt himself out of danger, he 
was no longer wearied, chilled, or trembling; the terrible 



LES MISERABLES 


376 


things he had passed through were dissipated like smoke, and 
all his strange and ferocious intellect was re-aroused, and 
found itself erect and free, ready to march onward. The 
first remark this man made was, — 

** Well, whom are we going to eat ? ** 

It is unnecessary to explain the meaning of this fright- 
fully transparent sentence, which signifies at once killing, assas- 
sinating, and robbing. The real meaning of to eat is to devour. 

“ We must get into hiding," said Brujon. “ We will un- 
derstand each other in tlftee words, and then separate at once. 
There was an affjjir that seemed good in the Rue Plumet, 
a deserted street, an isolated house, old rust-eaten railings 
looking on a garden, and lone women. 

“ Well, why not try it 1 " Thenardier asked. 

** Your daughter Eponine went to look at the thing," Ba- 
bet answered. 

“ And gave Magnon a biscuit,” Brujon added ; “ there’s 
nothing to be done there.” 

“ The girl’s no fool,” said Thenardier, “ still wo must see.” 

“ Yes, yes,” Brujon remarked, ‘‘ we must see.” 

Not one of the men seemed to notice Gavroche, who, 
during this colloquy, was sitting on one of the posts ; he 
waited some minutes, perhaps in the hope that his father 
would turn to him, and then put on his shoes again saying, — 

” Is it all over ? You men don’t want me any more, I sup- 
pose, as I’ve got you out of the scrape ? I'm off, for I must 
go and wake my brats.” 

And ha went off. The five men left the enclosure in turn. 
When Gavroche had disappeared round the corner of the 
Rue des Ballets, Babet took Thenardier on one side. 

” Co you notice that brat ? ” he asked him. 

” What brat ? ” 

”The one who climbed up the wall and handed you the rope.” 

” Not particularly.” 

” Well, I don't know, but I fancy it’s your son.” 

** Nonsense,” said Thenardier ; “ do you think so 1 ”* 

CHAPTER XIX 

The bandits, deeming the house in the Rue Plumet one 
which they might safely plunder, had sent Eponine to watch 



376 


LES MISERA6LES 


it ; but on discovering by whom it was inhabited, she began by 
keeping the bandits aloof from the house, then led Marius to it, 
and after several days of ecstasy before the railings, Marius, 
impelled by that force which attracts iron to the loadstone, 
and the lover toward the stones of the house in which she 
whom he loves resides, had eventually entered Cosctte’s gar- 
den, as Romeo did Juliet's. So long as the month of May 
of that year, 1832, lasted, there were every night in this poor 
untrimmed garden, and under this thicket, which daily be- 
came more fragrant and more thick, two beings composed of 
all the chastities and all the innocences, averiiowing with all 
the felicities of heaven. Once in the moonlight, Cosette 
stooped to pick up something on the ground, and her dress 
opened and displayed her neck. Marius turned his eyes away. 

What passed between these two lovers ? Nothing, they 
adored each other. At night, when they were there, this 
garden seemed a living and sacred spot. All the flowers 
opened around them and sent them their incense ; they 
opened their souls and spread them over the flowers. And 
they uttered words of love at which the trees shivered — 
words which, though mere nothings, by some magic power 
were sufficient to trouble and aflect all this nature. Take 
away from these whispers of two lovers the melody which 
issues from the soul, and accompanies them like a lyre, and 
what is left is only a shadow, and you say, “ What ! is it 
only that ? ” Well, yes, child's-play, repetitions, absurdities, 
foolishness, all that is the most sublime and proWnd in the 
world ! the only things which are worth the trouble of being 
said and being listened to.^ The man who has never heard, 
the man who has never uttered, these absurdities and poor 
things is an imbecile and a wicked man. 

They idolized each other. The permanent and the im- 
mutable exist ; a couple love, they laugh, they make little 
pouts with their lips, they intertwine their fingers, and that 
does not prevent eternity. Two lovers conceal themselves in 
a garden in the twilight, in the invisible, with the birds and 
the roses, they fascinate each other in the darkness with 
their souls, which they place in their eyes, they mutter, they 
whisper, and during this period immense constellations of 
planets fiil infinity. 

Marius never set foot in the house when he was with Co- 



LES MISEBABLES 


877 


Bette ; they concealed themselTes in a niche near the steps, 
so as not to be seen or heard from the street, and sat there 
often contenting themselves with the sole conversation of 
pressing hands twenty times a minute, and gazing at the 
branches of the trees. At such moments, had a thunderbolt 
fallen within thirty feet of them, they would not have noticed 
it, BO profoundly was the reverie of the one absorbed and 
plunged in the reverie of the other. It was a limpid purity, 
and the houses were all white, and nearly all alike. The 
whole garden was 'between them and the street, and each 
time that Marius came in and out he carefully restored the 
bar of the railings, so that no disarrangement was visible. 
He went away generally at midnight, and went back to 
Courfeyrac's lodgings. 

One evening Marius was going to the rendezvous along 
the Boulevard des Invalides ; he was walking as usual with 
his head down, and as he was turning the corner of the Bue 
Plumet, he heard some one say close to him — 

“ Good evening, Monsieur Marius/' 

He raised his head, and recognized Eponine. This pro- 
duced a singular eCect : he had not once thought of this girl 
since the day when she led him to the Rue Plumet ; he had 
not seen her again, and she had entirely left his mind. He 
had only motives to be grateful to her, he owed her his pre- 
sent happiness, and yet it annoyed him to meet her. At any 
other time Marius would have been very difierent to Eponine, 
but, absorbed by Cosette, he had not very clearly compre- 
hended that this Eponine was Eponine Thenardier, and that 
she bore ‘a name written in his father's will — that name to 
which he would have so ardently devoted himself a few 
months previously. Hence he replied with some embarrass- 
ment, — 

“ Ah, is it you, Eponine I ” 

“ Why do you treat me so coldly 1 Have I done you any 
injury ? " 

“ No," he answered. 

Certainly he had no fault to find with her ; on the con- 
trary. Still he felt that he could not but say " you " to 
Eponine, now that he said “ thou " to Cosette. As he re- 
mained silent, she exclaimed, — 

Tell me—" 



378 


LES MISERABLE3 


Then she stopped, and it seemed as if words failed this 
creature, who was formerly so impudent and bold. She tried 
to smile and could not, so continued, — 

“ Well ? 

Then she was silent again, and looked down on the ground. 

” Good night, Monsieur Marius,” she suddenly said, and 
went away. 

The next day — ^it was June 3rd, 1832, a date to which we 
draw attention owing to the grave events which were at that 
moment hanging over the horizon of Petris in the state of 
lightning-charged-clouds — Marius at nightfall was following the 
same road as on the previous evening, with the same ravish- 
ing thoughts in his heart, when he saw between the boule- 
vard trees Eponine coming toward him. Two days run- 
ning, — that was too much ; so he sharply turned back, changed 
his course, and went to the Rue Plumet by the Rue Monsieur. 
This caused Eponine to follow him as far as the Rue Plumet, 
a thing she had never done before ; hitherto, she had con- 
tented herself with watching him as he passed along the 
boulevard, without attempting to meet him : last evening 
was the first time she ventured to address him. She saw him 
move the railing-bar aside and step into the garden. 

She went up to the railing, felt the bars in turn, and 
easily distinguished the one which Marius had removed. 
With a sigh she sat down on the stone work of the railing, 
close to the bar, as if she were guarding it. She remained 
thuSj concealed by the darkness, for more than an hour with- 
out stirring or breathing. About ten o'clock at night, one of 
the two or three passers along the Rue Plumet, an old be- 
lated citizen, who was hurrying along the deserted and ill- 
famed street, while passing the railing, heard a dull menacing 
voice saying, — 

“ I am not surprised now that he comes every even- 
ing.” 

The passer-by looked around him, saw nobody, did not 
dare to peer into this dark corner, and felt horribly alarmed. 
He redoubled his speed, and was quite right in doing so, for 
in a few minutes six men, who were walking separately, and 
at some distance from each other, under the wdls, and who 
might have been taken for a drunken patrol, entered the Rue 
Plumet : the first who reached the railings stopped and waited 



LES MISEBABLES 


379 


for the rest, and a second after, all six were together, and 
began talking in whispered slang, — 

“ It's here,” said one of them. 

Have you got some mastic to break a pane ? ” 

' “Yes.” 

“ The railings are old,” remarked another, “ and there 
seems to bo no dog in the garden.” 

A man, who had not yet opened his mouth, began ex- 
amining the railings as Eponine had done an hour ago, and 
thus reached the bar whieh Marius had unfastened. Just as 
he was about to seize this bar, a hand, suddenly emerging 
from the darkness*, clutched his arm ; he felt himself roughly 
thrust back, and a hoarse voice whispered to him, “ There's a 
cab (a dog).” At the same time he saw a pale girl standing 
in front of him. The man had that emotion which is always 
produced by things unexpected ; his hair stood hideously on 
end. Nothing is more formidable to look at than startled 
wild beasts. He fell back and stammered, — 

“ Who is this she-devil ? ” 

“ Your daughter.” 

“ Well, what are you doing here t what do you want 1 ” 
Thenardier exclaimed, as far as is possible to exclaim in a 
w hisper. “ Have you come to prevent us from working ? ” 

“ You know very well that I am no fool,” Eponine replied, 
“ and people generally believe me. I have done you a service 
now and then ; well, I have made inquiries, and you would 
run a needless risk. I swear to you that there is nothing to 
be done in this house. They are very poor people, and there 
isn't a penny-piece in the house.” 

“ Go to the devil,” cried Thenardier ; “ when we have 
turn^ the house topsy-turvy, and placed the cellar at to^, 
and the attics at the bottom, we will tell you what there is 
inside, and whether they are francs, sous, or liards.” 

And he thrust her away that they might pass. 

She leant against the railings, faced these six men armed 
to the teeth, to whom night gave demoniac faces, and said in 
a firm, low voice, — 

“ Well, I will not let you ! ” 

They stopped in stupefaction, too amazed even to smile. 
She continued, — 

“ Friends, listen to me, for it's now my turn to speak. If 



880 


LES MISEBABLES 


70U enter this garden, or touch this railing, I will scream, 
knock at doors, wake people ; 1 will have you all six seized, 
and call the police." 

“ She is capable of doing it,” Thenardier whispered to 
Brujon and the other bandits. 

She shook her head, and added,— 

“ Beginning with my father.” 

Thenardier approached her. 

Not so close, my good man,” she said. 

He fell back, growling between his teeth, “ Why, what is 
the matter ? ” and added, “ the b ** 

She burst into a terrible laugh. 

” As you please, but you shall not enter ; but I am not 
the daughter of a dog, since I am the whelp of a wolf. You 
are six, but what do I care for that ? You are men, and I 
am a woman. You won't frighten me, I can tell you, and 
you shall not enter this house, because it does not please 
me. If you come nearer I bark, and I told you there was a 
dog, and I am it. You can't frighten me with your angry 
looks. What asses these men must be to think they can 
frighten a girl ! You have got dolls of mistresses w’ho crawl 
under the bed when you talk big, but 1 am afraid of no- 
thing ! ” 

She fixed her eye on Thenardier, and said, — Not even of 
you, father." 

Then she continued, as she turned her spectral, blood-shot 
eyeballs on each of the bandits in turn, — 

“ What do I care whether I am picked up to-morrow on 
the pavement of the Rue Plumet stabbed by my father, or 
am found within a year in the nets of St Cloud or on Swan's 
Island, among old rotting corks and drowned dogs ! 

She was compelled to break of!, for she was attacked by 
a dry cough, and her breath came from her weak, narrow 
chest like the death-rattle. 

“ There's something the matter with her,” said Babet. 
** Can she be in love with the dog ? And, yet, it's a pity to miss 
the affair. There are two women who live alone, an old cove 
who lives in a yard, and very decent curtains up to the win- 
dows. The old swell must be a Jew, and 1 consider the affair 
a good one." 

** Well, do you fellows go in,'^ Montparnasse exclaimed, 



LES MISEBABLES 381 

** and do the trick. I will remain here with the girl, and if 
she stirs — 

He let the knife which he held in his hand glisten in the 
lamp-light. Thenardier did not say a word, and seemed ready 
for anything they pleased. Brujon, who was a bit of an 
oracle, and who, indeed, had “ put up the job," had not yet 
spoken, and seemed thoughtful. He was supposed to recoil 
at nothing, and it was notorious that he had plundered a 
police-office through sheer bravado. Moreover, he wrote 
verses and songs, which gave him a great authority. Babet 
questioned him. , 

** Have you nothing to say, Brujon ? " 

Brujon remained silent for a moment, then tossed his head 
in several different ways, and at length decided on speaking. 

“ Look here. I saw this morning two sparrows fighting, 
and to-night I stumble over a quarrelsome woman : all that 
is bad, so let us be off." 

They went away, and while doing so Montparnasse mut- 
tered,— 

" No matter, if you had been agreeable I would have cut 
her throat." 

Babet replied, — 

" I wouldn't, for I never strike a lady." 

At the corner of the street they stopped and exchanged 
in a low voice this enigmatical dialogue. 

** Where shall we go and sleep to-night ? " 

« Under Paris." 

** Hava you your key about you, Thenardier ? " 

Of course." 

Epgnine, who did not take her eyes off them, saw them 
return by the road along which they had come. She rose 
and crawled after them, along the walls and the houses. She 
followed them thus along the boulevard ; there they separ- 
ated, and she saw the six men bury themselves in the dark- 
ness, where they seemed to fade away. 

While these bandits fied before a girl, Marius was by Co- 
sette's side. He had found her sad, she bad been crying, 
and her eyes were red. It was the first cloud in this admir- 
able dream. Marius's first remark was,— 

‘‘ What is the matter with you ? " 

And she replied, — 



S82 


LES MISEBABLES 


** I will tell you. My father told me this morning to hold 
myself in readiness, for he had business to attend to, and we 
were probably going away.” 

Marius shuddered from head to foot. He could not find 
a word to say, and Cosette merely noticed that his hand was 
very cold. She said to him in her turn, — 

“ What is the matter with you ? ” 

” I do not understand what you said,” he answered. 

She continued, — 

” This morning my father told me to prepare my clothes 
and hold myself ready, that he would give mo his linen to 
put in a portmanteau, that he was obliged to make a journey, 
that we were going away, that we must have a large trunk 
for myself and a small one for him, to get all this ready with- 
in a week, and that we should probably go to England.” 
“ Why, it is monstrous ! ” Marius exclaimed. 

It is certain that, at this moment, in Marius's mind, no 
abuse of power equalled in ferocity this one, — M. Fauchelevent 
taking his daughter to England because he had business to 
attend to. He asked, in a faint voice, — 

“ And when will you start ? ” 

” He did not say when.” 

“ And when will you return 1 
“ He did not tell me.” 

And Marius rose and said coldly,— 

” Will you go, Cosette ? ” 

” What can 1 do ? ” she said clasping her hands. 

” So you are determined to go ? ” 

Cosette seized Marius's hand, and pressed it as sole reply. 
” Very well,” said Marius, “ in that case I shall go else- 
where.” 

Cosette felt the meaning of this remark even more than 
she comprehended it; she turned so pale that her lace 
became white in the darkness, and stammered, — 

“ What do you mean ? ” 

Marius looked at her, then slowly raised his eyes to heaven, 
and replied, — 

“ Cosette, I have never pledged my word of honour to any 
one, because it frightens me, and I feel that my father is by 
the side of it. Well, I pledge you my most sacred word of 
honour that if you go away I shall die.” 



LES MISEBABLES 


383 


There was in the accent with which he uttered these words 
such a solemn and calm melancholy that Cosette trembled, 
and she felt that chill which is produced by the passing of a 
sombre and true thing. In her terror she ceased to weep, 

“ Now listen to me,” he said ; do not expect me to-mor- 
row.” 

“ Why not ? ” 

‘*Do not expect me till the day after,” 

“ Oh, why ? ” • 

”You will see.” 

“ A day without your coming ! — oh, it is impossible.*’ 

” Let us sacrifice a day to have, perhaps, one whole life.” 

Marius took her head between his two hands, she stood on 
tip-toe to reach him, and tried to see the hopes suggested by 
these words in his eyes. Marius added, — 

“ By-the-bye, you must know my address, for something 
might happen ; I live with my friend Courfeyrac, at No. 16, 
Eue de la Verrerie.” 

He felt in his pockets, took out a knife, and scratched the 
address on the plaster of the wall. In the meanwhile, Co- 
sette had begim looking in his eyes again. 

“ Tell me your thought, Marius, for you have one. Oh, 
tell it to me, so that 1 may pass a good night.” 

My thought is this ; it is impossible that God can wish 
to separate us. Expect me the day after to-morrow.” 

” What shall I do till then ? ” Cosette said ” You are 
in the world, and come and go ; how happy men are I but I 
shall remain all alone. Oh, I shall be so sad ! what 
will you do to-morrow night, teU.me 1 ** 

” I shall try something” 

” In that case I shall pray to Heaven, and think of you, 
so that you may succeed. But you will come early the next 
evening, and I shall expect you at nine o’clock exactly. You 
hear; I shall be in the garden as it is striking nine.” 

“And I too.” 

And without saying a word both fell into each other’s 
arms without noticing that their lips were joined together, 
while their upraised eyes, overflowing with ecstasy, contem- 
plated the stars. When Marius left, the street was deserted, 
for it was the moment when Eponine followed the bandits into 
the boulevard. 



884 


LES MISEBABLES 


Fathei Oillenoimand at tliis period had just passed his 
ninety-first birth-day, and still lived with his daughter at No. 
6, Rue des Filles-de-Calvaire, in the old house, which was 
his own property. The revolution of July had not exasper- 
ated him for more than six months. The truth is, that the 
old man was filled with grief. For four years he had been 
awaiting Marius with the conviction that the young scamp 
would ring his bell some day, and now he had begun to say 
to himself that Marius might remain away a little too long, 
M. Gillenormand, without confessing it to himself however, 
had never loved a mistress as he loved Marius. 

Mademoiselle Gillenormand failed in her attempt to sub- 
atitute her favourite, the officer of lancers, in Marius’s place. 
Theodule had met with no success, and M. Gillenormand re- 
fused to accept the qui fro quo. The fact is, as he was a man 
of sense and comparison, Theodule only served to make him 
regret Marius the more. 

On the evening of June 4th, he was alone in his apart- 
ment with the pastoral hangings, with his feet on the and- 
irons, half enveloped in his nine-leaved Coromandel screen, 
sitting at a table on which two candles burned under a green 
shade. 'and holding a book in his hand, which he was not 
reading. Father Gillenormand was thinking of Marius bit- 
terly and lovingly. He was explaining to himself that there 
was no longer any reason for Marius’s return, that if he had 
meant to come home he would have done so long before, 
and all idea of it must be given up. In the depth of this 
reverie his old servant Basque came in and asked, — 

Can you receive M. Marius, sir ! ” 

The old man sat up, livid, and like a corpse which is roused 
by a galvanic shock. 

“ M. Marius I who ? ” 

“ I do not know,” Basque replied. It was Nicolette who said 
to me just now, ‘ There is a young man here, say it is M .Marius.”* 

Father Gillenormand stammered in a low voice, “ Show him 
in,” and he remained in the same attitude, with hanging head 
and eye fixed on the door. It opened, and a young man ap- 
peared — it was Marius, who stopped in the door-way as if 
wanting to be asked in. His almost wretched clothes could 
not be seen in the obscurity produced by the shade, and only 
his calm, grave, but strangely sorrowful face could be distin- 



LES MISEBABLES 


885 


guisbcd. M Oillenormand felt inclined to open his arms and 
call the boy to him, his entrails were swelled with ravishment, 
affectionate words welled up and overflowed his bosom. At 
length all this tenderness burst forth and reached his lips, 
and through the contrast which formed the basis of his 
character a harshness issued from it. He said roughly, — 
“ What do you want here I Have you come to ask my 
pardon ? have you recognised your error ? ” 

Marius clasped his hands, advanced a step, and said, in a 
weak, trembhng voice, — • 

“ Take pity on me, sir.** 

“ Well, what is it you want of me T 
“ I am aware, sir,*’ said Marius, “ that my presence here 
displeases you, but I have only come to ask one thing of you, 
and then I shall go away at once.” 

“ You are a fool,” the old man said ; “ who told you to go 
away ? ” 

M. Gillenormand folded his arms, a gesture which with him 
was peculiarly imperious, and bitterly addressed Marius, — 

“ Let us come to an end. You have come to ask some- 
thing of me, you say ! Well, what is it ? speak.” 

” Sir," said Marius, with the look of man who feels that 
he is going to fall over a precipice, ” I have come to ask your 
permission to marry." 

M. Gillenormand rang the bell, and Basque poked his head 
into the door. 

” Send my daughter here." 

A second later, the door opened again, and Mile Gille- 
normand did not enter, but showed herself. Marius was 
standiijg silently, with drooping arms and the face of a crimi- 
nal, while M. Gillenormand walked up and down the room. 
He turned to his daughter and said to her, — 

” It is nothing. This is M. Marius, wish him good even- 
ing. This gentleman desires to marry, that will do. Be off." 

/The sound of the old man’s sharp, hoarse voice announced 
a mighty fury raging within him. The aunt looked at Marius 
in tenor, seemed scarce to recognize him, did not utter a 
syllable, and disappeared before her father’s breath, like a 
straw before a hurricane. In the meanwhile M. Gillenor- 
mand had turned back, and was now leaning against the 
mantel-piece. 



386 


LES MISEBABLES 


“ You marry ! at the age of one-and-twenty ! you have 
settled all that, and have only a permission to ask, a mere 
formality ! Sit down, sir.” 

He stopped, and before Marius had time to answer, he 
added violently, — 

** Ah ! have you a profession, a fortune ? how much do 
you earn by your trade as a lawyer ? ” 

“ Nothing,” said Marius, with a sort of fierceness and 
almost stern resolution. 

“ In that case, I presume that tb? young lady is wealthy ? ” 

“ Like myself.” 

” What ? no dowry ? no expectations'? 

“ I do not think so.” 

” And what is her name ? ” 

” Mademoiselle Fauchelevent.” 

” Ptt ! ” said the old gentleman. 

” Sir ! ” Marius excaimed. 

M. Gillcnormand interrupted him, with the air of a man 
who is talking to himself, — 

” That is it, one-and-twenty, no profession, twelve hun- 
dred livres a year, and the Baroness Pontmercy will go and 
buy a penn^orth of parsley at the green-grocer's.” 

” Sir,” Marius replied in the wildness of the last vanish- 
ing hope, ” I implore you, I conjure you in Heaven's name, 
with clasped hands I throw myself at your feet, sir, permit 
me to marry her ! ” 

The old man burst into a sharp, melancholy laugh, through 
which he coughed and spoke, — 

” Ah, ah, ah 1 you said to yourself, ” I'll go and see that 
old periwig, that absurd ass ! What a pity that I am not 
five-and-twenty yet, how I would send him a respectful sum- 
mons ! ' Old fool, you are too glad to see me, I feel inclined 
to marry Miss Lord-knows-who, the daughter of M. Lord- 
knows-what. She has no shoes, and I have no shirt, that 
matches ; I am inclined to throw into the river my career, 
my youth, my future, my life, and take a plunge into wretch- 
edness with a wife round my neck — ^that is my idea, and you 
must consent : * and the old fossil wiU consent. Qo in, my 
lad, fasten your paving stone round your neck, marry your 
Pousselevent, your Coupelevent, — never, sir, never I ” 

“Father— •• 



LES MISERABLE3 


887 


‘‘ Never ! 

Marius lost all hope through the accent with wliich this 

never " was pronounced. He crossed the room slo^Yly, with 
hanging head, tottering, and more like a man that is dying 
than one who is going away. M. Gillenormand looked after 
him, and at the moment when the door opened, and Marius 
was about to leave the room, he took four strides with the 
senile vivacity of an impetuous and spoiled old man, seized 
Marius by the collar, pulled him back energetically into the 
room, tlirew him into ai^ easy chair, and said, — 

“ Tell me all about it.'' 

The word /a^/ier' which had escaped from Marius's lips pro- 
duced this revolution. The ancestor had made way for the 
grandfather. 

“ Well, speak ; tell me of your love episodes, tell me all. 
Sapristi ! how stupid young men are ! " 

“ My father I " Marius resumed. 

The old gentleman's entire face was lit up with an inde- 
scribable radiance. 

“ Yes, that is it, call me father, and you'll see." 

There was now something so gentle, so good, so open, and 
so paternal, in this sharpness, that Marius, in this sudden 
passage from discouragement to hope, was, as it w^ere, stimned 
and intoxicated. As he was seated near the table the light 
of the candles fell on his seedy attire, which Father Gillenor- 
mand studied with amazement. 

“ Well, fatlier," said Marius. 

What," M. Gillenormand interrupted him, " have you 
really no’ money ? You are dressed like a thief. Here are 
one hundred louia to buy a hat* with." 

“-rlVTy father," Marius continued, “ my kind father. If 
you only knew how I love her ! You cannot imagine it. The 
first time I saw her was at the Luxembourg, where she came 
to walk. At the beginning I paid no attention to her, and 
then I know not how it happened, but I fell in love with her. 
Oh ! how wretched it made me ! I see her now every day at 
her own house, and her father knows nothing about it : just 
fancy, they are going away, we see each other at night in the 
garden, her father means to take her to England, and then I 
said to myself, ‘ I will go and see my grandfather and tell 
him about it/ I should go mad first, I should die, I should 



388 


LES MISEBABLES 


throw myself into the water. I must marry her, or else I 
shall go mad. That is the whole truth, and I do not believe 
that I have forgotten anything. She lives in a garden with 
a railing to it, in the Bue Plumet : it is on the side of the 
Invalides.” 

Father Gillenormand was sitting radiantly by Marius's 
aide : while listening and enjoying the sound of his voice he 
enjoyed at the same time a lengthened pinch of snufF. At 
the words Bue Plumet he broke oil his sniffing, and allowed 
the rest of the snufi to fall on his knees. 

“ Bue Plumet ! did you say Bue l^lumet ? Only think ! Is 
there not a barrack down there 1 Oh yes,* of course there is : 
your cousin, Theodule, the officer, the lancer, told me about 
it — a poppet, my dear fellow, a poppet ! And so she 
receives you behind her father's back, does she ? That's all 
right, and I had affairs of the same sort, more than one. Do 
you know what a man does in such cases ? He does not regard 
the matter ferociously, he does not hurl himself into matrimony 
or conclude with marriage and M. le Maire in his scarf. Such 
a young man goes to his grandfather, who is well inclined 
after all, and who has always a few rolls of louis in an old 
drawer, and he says to him, ‘ Grandpapa, that's how matters 
stand,' and grandpapa says, ‘ It is very simple, youth must 
enjoy itself, and old age be smashed up. I have been young, 
and you will be old. All right, my lad, you will requite it 
to your grandson. Here are two hundred pistoles, go and 
amuse yourself, confound you ! ' That is the way in which 
the matter should be arranged ; a man does not marry, but that 
is no obstacle : do you understand ? " 

Marius, petrified and incapable of uttering a word, shook 
his head in the negative. ^ 

You goose ! make her your mistress ! " 

Marius turned pale. He rose, picked up his hat, which 
was on the ground, and walked to the door with a fom, as- 
sured step. Then he turned, gave his grandfather a low bow, 
drew himself up again, and said, — 

“ Five years ago you outraged my father ; to-day you 
outraged my wife. I have nothing more to ask of you, sir ) 
farewell ! " 

Father Gillenormand, who was stupefied, opened his mouth, 
stretched out his arms, strove to rise, and ere he was able 



LES MISEBABLES 


389 


to utter a word, the door had closed again, and Marius had 
disappeared. The old gentleman remained for a few minutes 
motionless, and as if thunderstruck. At length he tore himself 
out of his easy chair, ran to the door as fast as a man can run 
at ninety-one, opened it, and cried, — 

“ Help ! help ! ” His daughter appeared, he went on with 
a lamentable rattle in his throat, — 

“ Run after him ! catch him up ! how did I offend him ? 
He is mad and going away ! this time he will not return." 

He went to the windoTW which looked on the street, opened 
it with his old treyibling hands, bent half his body out of it, 
while Basque and Nicolette held his skirts, and cried, — 

“ Marius ! Marius ! Marius ! Marius ! " 

But Marius could not hear him, for at this very moment he 
was turning the corner of the Rue St. Louis. The nonagenarian 
raised his hands twice or thrice to his temples with an expres- 
sion of agony, tottered back, and sank into an easy chair, pulse- 
less, voiceless, and tearless. 

That same day, about four in the afternoon Jean Valjean 
was seated on one of the most solitary slopes of the Champ de 
Mars. He had on his workman’s jacket and grey canvas 
trousers, and his long peaked cap concealed his face. He was 
at present calm and happy by Cosette’s side ; but, during the 
last week or fortnight, anxieties of a fresh nature had sprung 
up. One day, while walking along the boulevard, he noticed 
Th6nardier ; thanks to his disguise, Th6nardier did not recog- 
nize him, but after that Jean VaJjean saw him several times 
again, and now felt a certainty that Th6nardier was prowling 
about the quarter. This was sufficient to make him form a 
grand resolution, for Th^nardier* present was every peril at 
once ; moreover, Paris was not quiet. He, therefore, resolved 
to go to England ; he had warned Cosette, and hoped to be off 
within a week. He was sitting on the slope, revolving in his 
mind all sorts of thoughts, — Thenardier, the police, the jour- 
ney, the difficulty of obtaining a passport, and, lastly, an 
inexplicable fact which had just struck him. On the morning 
of that very day he, the only person up in the house, and walk- 
ing in the garden before Cosette’s shutters were opened, sud- 
denly perceived this line upon the wall, probably scratched 
with a nail, — 


16, Rm de la Verrerte. 



390 


LE3 MISERABLE3 


It was quite recent, the lines were white on the old black 
mortar, and a bod of nettles at the foot of the wall was powder- 
ed with line fresh plaster. This had probably been inscribed 
during the night. What was it ? an address ? a signal for 
others, or a warning for himself ? In any case, it was evident 
that the secrecy of the garden was violated, and that strangers 
entered it. In the midst of his troubled thoughts he perceived, 
from a shadow which the sun threw, that some one was 
standing on the crest of the slope immediately behind him. 
He was just going to turn, when a folded paper fell on his 
knees, as if a hand had thrown it over his head ; he opened 
the paper, and read these words, written in large characters, 
and in pencil, — 

Leave your house. 

Jean Valjean rose smartly, but there was no longer any 
one on the slope ; he looked round him, and perceived a person, 
taller than a child and shorter than a man, dressed in a grey 
blouse and dust-coloured cotton-velvet trousers, bestriding the 
parapet, and slipping down into the moat of the Champ de 
Mars. Jean Valjean at once went home very pensively. 

Marius had loft M. Gillenormand’a house in a wretched state ; 
he had gone in with very small hopes, and came out with an im- 
mense despair. He wandered the whole day about the streets, 
and awaited the evening with a feverish impatience, for he 
had but one clear idea left, that at nine o^clock he should see 
Gosette. At times, while walking along the most deserted 
boulevards, he imagined that he could hear strange noises in 
Paris ; then he thrust his head out of his reverie, and said, — 
** Can they be fighting ? ” ^t nightfall, at nine o^clock pre- 
cisely, he was at the Rue Plumet, as he had promised Cosette. 
He had not seen her for eight-and-forty hours, he was about to 
see her again. 

Marius removed the railing and rushed into the garden 
Cosette was not at the place where she usually waited for him, 
and he went to the niche near the terrace, but Cosette was not 
there. He raised his eyes and saw that the shutters of the 
house were closed ; after walking round the garden, mad with 
love, terrified, exasperated with grief and anxiety, he rapped 
at the shutters, like a master who returns home at a late 
hour. Ho rapped, he rapped again, at the risk of seeing the 
window open and the father's frowning face appear, and ask 



LES MISERABLES 


S91 


him, — What do you want ? ” ** Cosette ! he cried : “ Co- 
sette ! ” There was no answer, and it was all over. All at 
once he heard a voice which seemed to come from the street, 
crying through the trees, — 

“ Are you there, M. Marius ? 

“ Yes.’^ 

** Monsieur Marius,” the voice resumed ** your friends are 
waiting for you at the barricade in the Rue de la Chanvrerie.” 

Tliis voice was not entirely strange to him, and resembled 
Eponine's rough, hoarse jccents. Marius ran to the railings, 
pulled aside the shifting bar, passed his head through, and saw 
some one, who seeftied to be a young man, running away in the 
gloaming. 

About the same time M. Maboeuf was sinking gradually 
into a state of extreme poverty. The purse which had fallen 
BO strangely at his feet he carried to the police commissary 
of the district, as a lost object, placed by the finder at the 
disposal of the claimants. In other respects M. Maboeuf con* 
tinned to descend : and the indigo experiments had succeeded 
no better at the Jardin des Plantes than in his garden of 
Austerlitz. The previous year he owed his housekeeper her 
wages, and now he owed his landlord his rent. Nothing was 
then left him of the labour of his whole life, and he began 
eating the money produced by the last copies of his Flora, 
When he saw that this poor resource was growing exhausted 
he gave up his garden, and did not attend to it ; before, 
and long before, he had given up the two eggs and the slice 
of beef which he ate from time to time, and now dined on 
bread and potatoes. He had sold his last articles of furniture, 
then everything he had in duplicate, in linen, clothes, and cover- 
let% alid then his herbals and plates ; but he still has his most 
precious books, among them being several of great rarity, such 
as the ‘‘ Les Quadrins Historiques de la Bible,” the edition of 
1560 ; “ La Concordance des Bibles,” of Pierre de Besse ; 

Les Marguerites de la Marguerite,” of Jean dc la Haye, with 
a dedication to the Queen of Navarre ; the work on the ” duties 
and dignity of an ambassador,” by the Sieur de Villiers Hot- 
man ; a “ Florilegium Rabbinicum,” of 164:4 ; a “ Tibullus,” 
of 1567, with the splendid imprint ” Fcncim, in csdibits Manu- 
tianis** and lastly a “ Diogenes Laertius,” printed at Lyons in 
1644, in which were the famous various readings of the Ya- 



392 


LES MISERABLES 


tican MS. 411, of the thirteenth century, and those of the two 
Venetian codices 393 and 394, so usefully consulted by Henri 
Estiennes, and all the passages in the Doric dialect, ody to bo 
found in the celebrated twelfth century MS. of the Naples 
library. M. Maboeuf never lit a fire in his room, and went to 
bed with the sun, in order not to burn a candle ; it seemed as 
if he no longer had neighbours, for they shunned him when he 
went out, and he noticed it. The wretchedness of a child in- 
terests a mother, the wretchedness of a youth interests an old 
man, but the ^vretchedness of an old man interests nobody, and 
it is the coldest of all distresses. 

Every evening, before going to bed, he had fallen into the 
habit of reading a few pages of his Diogenes Laertius ; for he 
knew enough of Greek to enjoy the peculiarities of the text 
which he possessed, and had no other joy now left him. A few 
w'eeks passed away, and all at once Mother Plutarch fell ill. 
There is one thing even more sad than having no money to 
buy bread at a baker’s, and that is, not to have money to buy 
medicine at the chemist’s. One night the doctor had ordered 
a most expensive potion, and then the disease grew worse, and 
a nurse w^as necessary. M. Maboeuf opened his book-case, 
but there was now nothing left in it ; the last volume had de- 
parted, and the only thing loft him was the Diogenes Laertius. 
He placed the unique copy under his arm and went out — ^it 
was June 4, 1832 ; he proceeded to Royol’s successor at the 
Porte St. Jacques, and returned with one hundred francs. He 
placed the pile of five-franc pieces on the old servant’s table, 
and entered his bed-room without uttering a syllable. At 
dawn of the next day he seated himself on the overturned 
post in his garden, and over the hedge he might have been 
seen the whole morning, motionless, with drooping head, ^ and 
eyes vaguely fixed on the fad^ flower-beds. It rained every 
now and then, but the old man did not seem to notice it : but 
in the afternoon extraordinary noises broke out in Paris, re- 
sembling musket-shots, and the clamour of a multitude. 
Father Maboeuf raised his head, noticed a gardener passing, 
and said, — 

“ What is the matter ? ” 

The gardener replied, with the spade on his back, and with 
the most peaceful accent, — 

It’s the rebels, they are fighting.’^ 



LES MISEBABLES 


393 


“ In what direction 1 ” 

“ Over by the arsenal.” 

Father Maboeuf went into his house, took his hat, mechan- 
ically sought for a book to place under his arm, found none, 
said, “ Ah, it is true ! ” and went out with a wandering look, 

CHAPTER XX 

The facts which we are going to record belong to that dra- 
matic and living reality vfliich the historian sometimes neglects 
through want of time and space, but they contain, we insist 
upon it, life, palpitation, and human quivering. Small details, 
apparently unimportant, are, so to speak, the foliage of great 
events, and are lost in the distance of history. The period 
called the riots abounds in details of this nature, and the 
judicial inquiries, through other than historic reasons, have not 
revealed everything, or perhaps studied it. We are, therefore, 
going to bring into light among the peculiarities known and 
published, things which are not known, and facts over which 
the forgetfulness of some and the death of others have passed. 
Most of the actors in these gigantic scenes have disappeared. 
On the next day they held their tongues, but we may say that 
we saw what we are about to narrate. Wo will change a few 
names, for history recounts, and does not denounce, but we will 
depict true things. The nature of our book will only allow us 
to display one side and one episode, assuredly the least known, 
of the days of June 5 and 6, 1832, but we will do so in such 
a way that the reader will be enabled to catch a glimpse of 
the real face of this frightful Qublic adventure behind the 
dark ^veil which we are about to lift. 

fn the spring of 1832, although for three months cholera 
had chilled minds and cast over their agitation a species of dull 
calm, Paris had been for a long time ready for a commotion. 
The great city may be compared to a piece of artillery when 
it is loaded, — a spark need only fall and the gun goes off. In 
June, 1832 the spark was the death of General Lamarque. 
Lamarque was a man of renown and of action, and had displayed 
in succession, under the Empire and the Restoration, the two 
braveries necessary for the two epochs, the bravery of the battle- 
field and the bravery of the oratorical tribune. He was elo- 
quent as he had been valiant, and a sword was felt in his words ; 



394 


LES MISERABLES 


like Foy, his predecessor, after holding the command erect, he 
held liberty erect ; he sat between the Left and the Extreme Left 
beloved by the people because he accepted the chances of the 
future, and beloved by the mob because he had served the 
Emperor well. He was with Gerard and Drouet one of Na- 
poleon’s marshals in fetto, and the hiatus of 1815 affected 
him like a personal insult. He hated Wellington with a direct 
hatred, which pleased the multitude, and for the last seventeen 
years, scarcely paying attention to intermediate events, he had 
majestically nursed his grief for Waterloo. In his dying hour 
he pressed to his heart a sword which the oi^cers of the Hun- 
dred Days had given him, and while Napoleon died uttering the 
word armij, Lamarque died pronouncing the word courUry, 
His death, which was expected, was feared by the people as a 
loss, and by the Government as an opportunity. This death 
was a mourning, and, like everything which is better, mourning 
may turn into revolt. This really happened on the previous 
evening, and on the morning of June 5th, the day fixed for the 
interment of Lamarque, the Faubourg St. Antoine, close to 
which the procession would pass, assumed a formidable aspect. 
This tumultuous network of streets was filled with rumours, 
and people armed themselves as they could. Carpenters car- 
ried off the bolts of their shop ** to break in doors with ; ” one of 
them made a dagger of a stocking-weaver’s hook, by breaking 
off the hook and sharpening the stump. Another in his fever 
to attack ” slept for three nights in his clothes. A carpen- 
ter of the name of Lombier met a mate, who asked him, Where 
are you going 1 ” “ Why, I have no weapon, and, so I am 

going to my shop to fetch m^ compasses.” “ What to do ? ” 
“ I don’t know,” Lombier said. A porter of the name of 
Jacqueline arrested any workman who happened to pass, d.nd 
said, Come with me.” He paid for a pint of wine, and asked, 
** Have you work ? ” “ No.” Go to Filspierre’s, between the 
Montreuil and Charonne barrieres, and you will find work. At 
Filspierre’s cartridges and arms were distributed, Some well- 
known chiefs went the rounds, that is to say, ran from one to the 
other to collect their followers. At Barthelemy’s near the 
Barri6re du Trone, and at Oapel’s, the Petit Chateau, the 
drinkers accosted each other with a serious air, and could be 
heard saying, ” Where is your pistol ? ” “ Under my blouse ; 
and yours ? ’’ “ Under my shirt.” In the Rue Traversitoe, 



LES HISfiBABLES 


S9S 


in front of Roland's workshop, and in the yard oftheBamt 
House, before the workshop of Bernier the toolmaker, groups 
stood whispering. The most ardent among them was a certain 
Mavot, who never stopped longer than a week at a shop, for his 
masters sent him away, as they were obliged to quarrel with 
him every day." Mavot was kQled the next day on the barri- 
cade of the Rue Menilmontant. Pretot, who was also de- 
stined to die in the struggle, seconded Mavot, and replied 
to the question ‘‘ What is your object ? " “ Insurrection.'* 
Workmen assembled af the corner of the Rue de Berry, 
awaiting a man of the name of Lemarin, revolutionary agent 
for the Faubourg St. Marceau, and pass- words were exchanged 
almost publicly. 

On June 6, then, a day of sunshine and shower, the funeral 
procession of General Lamarque passed through Paris with the 
official military pomp, somewhat increased by precautions* 
Two battalions with covered drums and trailing muskets, ten 
thousand of the National Guard with their sabres at their side, 
and the batteries of the artillery of the National Guard, escort- 
ed the coffin, and the hearse was drawn by young men. The 
officers of the Invalidcs followed immediately after, bearing 
laurel branches, and then came a countless, agitated, and 
strange multitude, the sectionists of the friends of the people, 
the school of law, the school of medicine, refugees of all nations, 
Spanish, Italian, German, Polish flags, horizontal tri-colour 
flags, every banner possible, children waving green branches, 
stone-cutters and carpenters, out of work at this very time, and 
printers, easy to recognize by their paper caps, marching two 
and two, three and three, uttering cries, nearly all shaking 
s^clra, and some sabres, without order, but with one soul, at 
one moment a mob, at another a column. Squads selected 
their chiefs, and a man armed with a brace of pistols, which 
were perfectly visible, seemed to pass others in review, whose 
files made way for him. On the side-walks of the boulevards, 
on the branches of the trees, in the balconies, at the win- 
dows and on the roofs, there was a dense throng of men, 
women and children, whose eyes were full of anxiety. 'An 
armed crowd passed, and a startled crowd looked at it ; on its 
side Government was observing, with its hand on the sword- 
hilt. Four squadrons of carbineers, mounted, and with their 
trumpeters at the head, with their cartouche boxes full, and 



896 


LES MISEBABLES 


their musquetoons loaded, might be seen on the Place Louis 
XV,, in the Pays Latin, and at the Jardin dea Plantes ; the 
municipal guard were echelonned from street to street ; at the 
Halle-auz-Vins was a squadron of dragoons, at the Grdve was 
one half of the twelfth Light Infantry, while the other half was 
at the Bastille ; the 6th Dragoons were at the Celestins, and 
the court of the Louvre was crammed with artillery ; all the 
rest of the troops were confined to barracks, without counting 
the regiments in the environs of Paris. The- alarmed authori- 
ties held suspended over the threatening multitude twenty-four 
thousand soldiers in the city, and thirty, thousand in the 
suburbs. 

Various rumours circulated in the procession, legitimist 
intrigues were talked about, and they spoke about the Duke 
of Reichstadt, whom God was marking for death at the very 
moment when the crowd designated him for Emperor. A per- 
son who was never discovered announced that at an appointed 
hour two overseers, gained over, would open to the people 
the gates of a small arm factory. An enthusiasm blended 
with despondency was visible in the uncovered heads of most 
of the persons present, and here and there too in this multitude, 
sufiering from so many violent but noble emotions, might be 
seen criminal faces and ignoble lips that muttered, “Let 
us plunder.” There are some agitations which stir up the 
bottom of the marsh and bring clouds of mud to the surface 
of the water ; tliis is a phenomenon familiar to a well-consti- 
tuted police force. The procession proceeded with feverish 
slowness from the house of death along the boulevards to the 
Bastille. It rained at interval;, but the rain produced no effect 
on this crowd. Several incidents, such as the coffin carried 
thrice round the Vendome column, stones thrown at the Due 5e 
Fitzjames, who was noticed in a balcony with his hat on his 
head, the Gallic cock torn from a popular flag and dragged in 
the mud, a policeman wounded by a sword-thrust at the Porte 
St. Martin, an officer of the 12th Light Infantry saying aloud, 
** I am a republican,” the Polytechnic school coming up, after 
forcing the gates, and the cries of “ Long live the Polytechnic 
school I ” “ Long live the Republic ! ” marked the passage of 
the procession. At the Bastille long formidable files of specta- 
tors, coming down from the Faubourg St. Antoine, effected their 
junction with the procession, and a certain terrible ebullition 



LES MISERA6LES 


S97 


began to agitate tbe crowd. A man was beard saying to an- 
other, “ You see that fellow with the red beard ; he will say 
when it is time to fire. It seems that this red beard reappeared 
with the same functions in a later riot, the Quenisset affair. 

The hearse passed the Bastille, followed the canal, crossed 
the small bridge, and reached the esplanade of the Bridge of 
Austerlitz, where it halted. At this moment a bird's-eye 
view of the crowd would have offered the appearance of a 
comet, whose head was on the esplanade, and whose tail was 
prolonged upon the boulevard as far as the Porte St. Martin. 
A circle was formed round the hearse, and the vast crowd was 
hushed. Lafayette spoke, and bade farewell to Lamarque : 
it was a touching and august moment, — all heads were un- 
covered, and all hearts beat. All at once a man on horseback, 
dressed in black, appeared in the middle of the group with 
a red flag, though others say w’ith a pike surmounted by a 
red cap. Lafayette turned his head away, and Excelmans left 
the procession. This red flag aroused a storm and disap- 
peared in it : from the Boulevard Bourdon to the Bridge of 
Austerlitz one of those clamours which resemble billows, stirred 
up the multitude, and two prodigious cries were raised, “ La~ 
marque at the Pantheon / " — Lafayette at the Hotel de 
Ville!** Young men, amid the acclamations of the crowd, 
began dragging Lamarque in the hearse over the Bridge of 
Austerlitz, and Lafayette in a hackney coach along the 
Quai Morland. In the crowd that surrounded and applauded 
Lafayette people noticed and pointed out to each other a 
German* by the name of Ludwig Snyder, who has since died a 
centenarian, who also went through the campaign of 1776, 
and had fought at Trenton under Washington, and under 
Lafayette at Brandywine. 

The municipal cavalry galloped along the left bank to stop 
the passage of the bridge, while on the right the dragoons 
came out of the Celestins and deployed along the Quai Mor- 
land. The people who were drawing Lafayette suddenly per- 
ceived them at a turning of the quay, and cried, “ The Dra- 
goons ! " The troops advanced at a walk, silentlyg with the 
pistols in the holsters, sabres undrawn, and musquetoons 
slung with an air of gloomy expectation. Two hundred yards 
from the little bridge they halted, the coach in which Lafa- 
yette was went up to them, they opened their ranks to let it 



398 


LES MISEBABLES 


pass, and then closed up again. At this moment the dra- 
goons and the crowd came in contact, and women hcd in 
terror. What took place in this fatal minute 1 No one 
could say, for it is the dark moment when two clouds clash 
together. Some state that a bugle-call sounding the charge 
was heard on the side of the Arsenal, others that a dragoon 
was stabbed with a knife by a lad. The truth is, that three 
shots were suddenly fired, one killing Major Cholut, the second 
an old deaf woman who was closing her window in the Bue 
Contrescarpe, while the third grazed An officer’s shoulder. A 
woman cried, They have begim too soon ! and all at once a 
squadron of dragoons was seen galloping up on the opposite 
side with drawn sabres, and sweeping everything before it. 
At such a moment, the last word is said, the tempest is un- 
chained, stones shower, the fusillade bursts forth : many rush 
to the water’s edge and cross the small arm of the Seine, which 
is now filled up : the timber-yards on Isle Louviers, that 
ready-made citadel, bristle with combatants, stakes are pulled 
up, pistols are fired, a barricade is commenced, the young 
men, driven back, pass over the Bridge of Austerlitz with the 
hearse at the double, and charge the municipal guard : the 
carbineers gallop up, the dragoons sabre, the crowd disperses in 
all directions, a rumour of war flies to the four comers of 
Paris : men cry “ To arms,” and run, overthrow, fly, and 
resist. -Passion spreads the riot as the wind does fixe. 

Nothing is more extraordinary than the commencement of 
a riot, for everything breaks out everywhere at once. Was 
it foreseen ? Yes. Was it prepared ? No. Where* does it 
issue from ? From the paveisaent. Where does it fall from ? 
The clouds. At one spot the insurrection has the character 
of a plot, at another of an improvisation. The first comer 
grasps a current of the mob, and leads it whither he pleases. 
It is a beginning full of horror, with which a sort of formidable 
gaiety is mingled. First there is a clamour ; shops are closed 
and the goods disappear from the tradesmens windows; 
then dropping shots are heard ; people fly ; gate-wajrs are 
assailed with the butts of muskets, and servant-maids may be 
heard laughing in the yards of the houses and saying. There* $ 
going to be a row. 

A quarter of an hour had not elapsed : this is what was 
going on simultaneously at twenty different points of Paris. 



LES MISEBABLES 


399 


In the Rue St, Croix de la Bretonnerie, twenty young men, 
with beards and long hair entered a wine-shop and came out a 
moment after carrying a horizontal tricolour flag covered with 
crape, and having at their head three men armed, one with a 
sabre, the second with a gun, and the third with a pike. In 
the Rue des Nonaindieres, a well-dressed bourgeois, who 
had a large stomach, a sonorous voice, bald head, lofty fore- 
head, black beard, and one of those rough moustaches which 
cannot be kept from bristling, publicly offered cartridges 
to passers-by. In the Bue St. Pierre Montmartre bare-armed 
men carried about a black flag, on which were read these 
words, in white letters : Republic or Death. In the Rue des 
Jeuneurs, Rue du Cadran, Rue Montorgueil, and Rue Mandar, 
groups appeared waving flags, on which could be distinguished 
the word Section in gold letters with a number. One of these 
flags was red and blue, with an imperceptible parting line of 
white. A small arm-factory and the gunsmiths' shops were 
plundered on the Boulevard St. Martin, and in a few minutes 
the thousand hands of the mob seized and carried off two 
hundred and thirty guns, nearly all double-barrelled, sixty- 
four sabres, and eighty-three pistols. In order to arm as 
many persons as possible, one took the musket, the other the 
bayonet. Opposite the Quai de la Gr6ve young men armed 
with tmuskets stationed themselves in the rooms of some 
ladies in order to fire ; one of them had a wheel-lock gun. 
They rang, went in and began making cartridges, and one 
of the ladies said afterwards, ** I did not know what cartridges 
were till my husband told me.” A crowd broke into a curi- 
osity-shop on the Rue des Vieilles-Haudriettes, and took from 
it yataghans and Turkish weapons. The corpse of a mason 
killed by a bullet lay in the Rue de la Fcrle. And then, on the 
right bank and the left bank, on the quay, on the boulevards, 
in the Quartier Latin, and on the Quarticr of the Halles, 
panting men, workmen, students, and sectionista read pro- 
clamations, shouted ‘‘ To arms ! ” broke the lanterns, unhar- 
nessed vehicles, tore up the pavement, broke in the doors of 
houses, unrooted trees, searched cellars, rolled up barrels, 
heaped up pav'^ng-stones, furniture, and planks, and formed 
barricades. 

In less than an hour twenty-seven barricades issued from 
the ground in the single quarter of the Halles ; in the centre 



100 


LES MISEBABLES 


was that famous house, No. 60 , which was the fortress of 
Jeanne and her hundred-and-six companions, and which, 
flanked on one side by a barricade at St. Merry, and on the 
other by a barricade in the Bue Maubu^e commanded by 
three streets, des Arcis, St. Martin, and Aubry le Boucher, 
the last of which it faced. This is without countmg 
innumerable barricades in twenty other districts of Paris, as 
the Marias and the Montagne Ste Genevidve ; one in the Bue 
Menilmontant, in which a gate could be seen^torn off its hinges ; 
and another near the little bridge of the Hotel Dieu, made of an 
overthrown vehicle. 

At the moment when the insurrection, breaking out through 
the collision between the people and the troops in front of the 
arsenal, produced a retrograde movement in the multitude 
that followed the hearse, and which pressed with the whole 
length of the boulevards upon the head of the procession, 
there was a frightful reflux. The ranks were broken, and all 
ran or escaped, some with cries of attack, others with the pallor 
of flight, the great stream which covered the boulevards 
divided in a second, overflowed on the right and left, and spread 
in torrents over two hundred streets at once, as if a dyke had 
burst. At this moment a ragged lad who was coming down 
the Bue Menilmontant, holding in his hand a branch of flower- 
ing laburnum which he had picked on the heights of Belleville, 
noticed in the shop of a seller of curiosities an old holster 
pistol. He threw his branch on the pavement, and cried, — 

“ Mother What’s-your-name, I’ll borrow your machine.” 

And he ran off with the pistol. Two minutes after, a crowd 
of frightened cits flying through the Bue Basse met the lad, 
who was brandishing his pistol and singing— 

La nuit on no voit rien, 

Le jour on voit tr^ bien, 

D’un 4crit apocryphe 
Le bourgeois s’^bouriffo 
Pratiques la vertu 
Tutu chapeau pointul 

— ^It was little Gavroche going to the wars. Gavroche did not 
suspect, that on that wretehed rainy night when he offered 
the hospitality of his elepnant to the two boys he was per- 
forming the offices of Providence to his two brothers. His 
brothers in the evening,' his father in the morning, — such had 



LES MISERABLES 


401 


been his night. On leaving the Hue des Ballets at dawn, he 
hurried back to the elephant, artistically extracted the two 
boys, shared with them the sort of breakfast which he had 
invented, and then went away, confiding them to that good 
mother, the street, who had almost brought himself up. On 
leaving them he gave them the meeting on the same spot at 
night and left them this speech as farewell , — ** I am breaking 
a cane, alias my name's walker, or, as they say at Court, I 
am going to hook it. My brats, if you do not find papa and 
mamma, come here again to-night. I will give you your sup- 
per, and put you^to bed.” The two lads picked up by some 
policeman and placed at the depot, or stolen by some mounte- 
bank, or simply lost in that Chinese puzzle, Paris, did not 
return. The substrata of the existing social world are full of 
such lost races, Gavroche had not seen them again, and ten 
or twelve weeks had elapsed since that night. More than once 
he had scratched his head and asked himself, ” Where the deuce 
are my two children ? ” 

Gavroche effected his junction with a band led by Enjolras, 
Courfeyrac, Combeferre, and Feuilly. They were all more or 
less armed. Bahorel and Prouvaire, two of their associates, 
had joined them. Enjolras had a double-barrelled fowling- 
piece, Combeferre a National Guard’s musket bearing the 
number of a legion, and in his waist-belt two pistols, which his 
unbuttoned coat allowed to be seen; Jean Prouvaire an 
old cavalry musquetoon, and Bahorel a carbine ; Courfeyrac 
brandished a sword drawn from a cane, while Feuilly, with a 
naked sabre in his hand, walked along shouting, “ Long live 
Poland ! ” They reached the Quai Morland without neck- 
cloths or hats, panting for brea1:h, drenched with rain, but 
with lightning in their eyes. Gavroche calmly approached 
them, — 

“ Where are we going t ** 

" Come,” said Courfeyrac. 

A tumultuous crowd accompanied them — students, artists, 
young men afSiliated to the Cougourde of Aix, artisans, and 
lightermen, armed with sticks and bayonets, and some, like 
Combeferre, with pistols passed through their trouser-belt. 
An old man, who appeared very aged, marched in this band ; 
he had no weapon, and hurried on, that ha might not be left 
behind, though he looked thoughtful. It was M. Mabceuf. 



402 


LES MISEBABLES 


We will tell what had occunred. Enjolras and his friends 
were on tlie Bourdon Boulevard near the granaries, at the 
moment when the dragoons charged, and Enjolras, Courfcyrac, 
and Combeferre were among those who turned into the Bue 
Bassompierre shouting “ To the barricades ! In the Bue 
Lesdiguieres they met an old man walking along, and what 
attracted their attention was that he was moving very irregu- 
larly, as if intoxicated. Moreover, he had his hat in his hand, 
although it had rained the whole morning, and was raining 
rather hard at that very moment/' Courfeyrac recognized 
Father Maboeuf, whom he knew through having accompanied 
Marius sometimes as far as his door. Knowing the peaceful 
and more than timid habits of the churchwarden and biblio- 
maniac, and stupefied at seeing him in the midst of the tumult, 
within two yards of cavalry charges, almost in the midst of the 
musketry fire, bareheaded in the rain, walking about among 
bullets, he accosted him, and the rebel of five-and-twenty and 
the octogenarian exchanged this dialogue. 

“ Monsieur Mabceuf, you had better go home. There is 
going to be a row. Sabre-cuts and shots, M. Maboeuf.^^ 

“ Very good." 

** Cannon-shots." 

** Very good. Where are you gentlemen going ? 

“ To upset the Government.” 

“ Very good." 

And he began following them, but since that moment had 
not said a word. His step had become suddenly firm, and 
when workmen offered him an arm, he declined it with a shake 
of the head. He walked almost at the head of the column, 
having at once the command of a man who is marching and the 
face of a man who is asleep. 

" What a determined old fellow ! ” the students muttered, 
and the rumour ran along the party that he was an ex-conven- 
tionalist, an old regicide. 

The Parisians who at the present day, on entering the Bue 
Rambuteau from the side of the Halles, notice, on their right, 
opposite the Bue Monditour, a basket-maker's shop having 
for sign a basket in the shape of Napoleon the Great, with this 
inscription : 

Napoleon est fait 
Tout bn osieb,— 



LES MISEBABLES 


403 


do not auspect the terrible scenes which this very site saw 
hardly thirty years ago. Here were the Rue de la Chanvrerie, 
which old title-deeds write Chanverrerie, and the celebrated 
wine-shop called Corinth. A barricade of very formidable 
dimensions was erected by the rioters at this spot, eclipsed, 
by the way, by the St. Merry barricade. It is on this famous 
barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, which has now fallen 
into deep night, that we are going to throw a little light. 

Those persons who wish to represent to themselves in a 
tolerably exact manner the mass of houses which at that day 
stood at the nortb-east corner of the Halles, at the spot where 
the opening of the Rue Rambuteau now is, need only imagine 
an N whose two vertical strokes are the Rue de la Grande 
Truanderie, and the Rue de la Chanvrerie, and of wliich the 
Rue de la Petite Truanderie wotdd be the cross-stroke. The 
old Rue Mondetour intersected the three strokes with the most 
tortuous angles, so that the Dsedalian entanglement of these 
four streets was sufficient to make, upon a space of one hundred 
square yards, between the Halles and the Rue St. Denis on one 
side, between the Rue du Cygne and the Rue des Pr^cheurs, on 
the other side, seven islets of houses, strangely cut, of difierent 
heights, standing side-ways, and as if accidentally, and scarce 
separated by narrow cracb»» like the blocks of stone in a 
dock. We say narrow cracks, and cannot give a fairer idea 
of these obscure, narrow, angular lanes, bordered by tenements 
eight storeys in height. These houses were so decrepit that 
in the Rues de la Chanvrerie and La Petite Truanderie, the 
frontages were supported by beams running across from one 
house to the other. The street, was narrow and the gutter 
wide ^ the passer-by walked on a constantly damp pavement, 
passing shops like cellars, heavy posts shod with iron, enormous 
piles of filth, the gates armed with extraordinary old palings. 
The Rue Rambuteau has devastated all this. The name of 
Mondetour exactly describes the winding of all this lay-stall. 
A little further on it was foimd even better expressed by the 
Rue Pirouette, which threw itself into the Rue Mond4tour. 
The wayfarer who turned out of the Rue St. Denis into the 
Rue de la Chanvrerie saw it gradually contract before him, 
as if he had entered an elongated funnel. At the end of the 
street, which was very short, he found the passage o^rred on 
the side of the Halles by a tall row of houses, and he might have 



404 


LES MISERABLES 


fancied himself in a blind allej had he not perceived on hia 
right and left two black cuts through which he could escape. 
It was the Rue Mondetour, which joined on one side the Rue 
des Precheurs, on the other the Rue du Cygne. At the end 
of this sort of blind alley, at the corner of the right-hand 
cutting, a house lower than the rest, forming a species of cape 
in the street, might be noticed. It is in this house, only two 
storeys high, that an 'illustrious cabaret had been installed for 
more than three hundred years. This inn produced a joyous 
noise at the very spot which old Thccphile indicated in the two 
lines, — 

L&amp; branle le squelette horrible, 

D*un pauvre amant qui se pendit. 

The spot was good, and the landlord succeeded each other 
from father to son. In the time of Mathurin Regnier this inn 
was called the Rose-pot,” and as rebuses were fashionable, 
it had as sign a post painted pink, which represented a ”pot- 
eau rose,” hence the Pot-aux-roses. In the last century worthy 
Natoire, one of the fantastic masters disdained at the present 
day by the stifi school, having got tipsy several times in this inn 
at the same table where Regnier had got drunk, painted out of 
gratitude a bunch of currants on the pink post. The landlord, 
in his delight, changed his sign, and had the words gilt under 
the bunch, au raisin de Corinthe, hence the name of Corinth. 

A ground-floor room in which was the bar, a first-floor room 
in which was a billiard-table, a spiral wooden staircase piercing 
the ceiling, wine on the tables, smoke on the walls, and candles 
by daylight — such was the inn. A staircase with a trap in the 
ground-floor room led to the cellar, and the apartments of 
the occupiers were on the second floor, reaching by a. stair- 
case more like a ladder, and through a door hidden in the w*all 
of the large first-floor room. Under the roof were two garrets, 
the nests of the maid-servants, and the kitchen shared the 
ground-floor with the bar. 

Father Hucheloup, the landlord, was a worthy fellow. He 
always looked ill-tempered, appeared wishful to intimidate 
his customers, growled at persons who came in, and seemed 
more disposed to quarrel with them than serve them. And 
yet we maintain people were always welcome. This peculiarity 
filled his bar, and brought to him young men who said, ” Let us 
go and have a look at Father Hucheloup.'^ He had been a 



LES MISERABLES 


406 


fencing-master, and would suddenly break out into a laugh ; he 
had a rough voice, but was a merry fellow. His was a comical 
foundation with a tragical look; and he asked for nothing 
better than to frighten you, something like the snufE-boxes 
which had the shape of a pistol — the detonation produces a 
sneeze. He had for wife a Mother Hucheloup, a bearded and 
very ugly being. About 1830 Father Huchleloup died, and 
with him disappeared the secret of the car'pe au gras. His 
widow, who was almost inconsolable, carried on the business, 
but the cooking degenerated, and became execrable, and the 
wine, which had always been bad, was frightful, Courfeyrac 
and his friends, however, frequented Corinth — through pity, 
said Bossuct. 

Widow Hucheloup was short of breath and shapeless, and 
had rustic recollections, which she deprived of their insipidity 
by her pronunciation. She had a way of her own of saying 
things which seasoned her reminiscences of her village and the 
spring : it had formerly been her delight, she declared, to hear 
the red-beasts singing in the awe-thorns." The first-floor 
room, where the restaurant was, was a large, long apartment, 
crowded with stools, chairs, benches, and tables, and an old 
rickety billiard-table. It was reached by the spiral staircase 
which led to a square hole in the comer of the room, like a 
ship's hatchway. This apartment, lighted by only one narrow 
window and a constantly burning lamp, had a garret-look about 
it and all the four-legged articles of furniture behaved as if they 
had only three. 

. Two servant girls, called Matelotte and Gibelotte, and who 
were never known by other namCi^, helped Marne Hucheloup 
in placing on the tables bottles of blue wine, and the various 
messes served out to the hungry guests in earthenware bowls, 
Matelotte, stout, round, red-haired, and noisy, an ex-favourite 
sultana of the defunct Hucheloup, was uglier than the ugliest 
mythological monster ; and yet, as it is always proper that 
the servant should be a little behind the mistress, she was not so 
ugly as Marne Hucheloup. Gibelotte, tall, delicate, white 
with a lympathic whiteness, with blue circles round her eyes, 
and drooping lids, ever exhausted and oppressed, and sufler- 
ing from what may be called chronic lassitude, the first to 
rise, the last to go to bed, waited on everybody, even the other 
servant, silently and gently, and smiling a sort of vague, sleepy 



406 


LE3 MISEBABLES 


smile through her weariness. Before entering the restaurant 
the following line written by Oourfeyrac in chalk was legible,— 
“ Begale si tu peuz, et mange si tu Toses/' 

On the morning of June 5th, Bossuet and Joly, who were 
breakfasting at Corinth, were unexpectedly disturbed by a 
tumult of hurried footsteps, and shouts of To arms / He 
turned, and noticed in the Bue. St Denis at the end of the 
Bue Ciianvrerie, Enjolras passing, carbine in hand, Gavroche 
with his pistol, Feuilly with his sabre, Gourfeyrac with his 
sword, Jean Prouvaire with his muiJquetoon, Combefcrre with 
his fowling-piece, Bahorel with his, and the whole armed and 
stormy band that followed them. The Bue de la Chanvrerie 
was not a pistol-shot in length, so Bossuet improvised a 
speaking-trumpet with his two hands round his mouth, and 
shouted, — 

** ComteyrsLG ! Courfeyrac ! hilloh ! ” 

Courfeyrac heard the summons, perceived Bossuet, and 
walked a few steps down the Bue de la Chanvrerie exclaim- 
ing, “ What do you want 1 which was crossed by a “ Where 
are you going ? " 

“ To make a barricade,” Courfeyrac answered. 

” Well, why not make it here 1 The spot is good.^ 

” That is true, Eagle,*^ Courfeyrac remarked. 

Enjolras, Combeferre, and Courfeyrac directing everything, 
two barricades were erected simultaneously, both of which were 
supported by Corinth and formed a square ; the larger one 
closed the Bue de la Chanvrerie, and the smaller the Hue Mon- 
d^tour on the side of the Hue du Oygne. This latter barricade, 
which was very narrow, was merely made of barrels and 
paving-stones. There were about fifty workmen there, of 
whom three were armed with guns, for on the road they had 
borrowed a gunsmiths's entire stock. 

The journals of the day which stated that the barricade in 
the Bue de la Chanvrerie, that almost impregnable fortress^ as 
they called it, reached the level of a first-floor, are mistaken, 
for the truth is, that it did not exceed an average height of 
six or seven feet. It was so built that the combatants could, 
at will, either disappear behind it or ascend to its crest, by 
means of a quadruple row of paving-stone arranged like steps 
inside. Externally the front of the barricade, composed of 
piles of paving-stones and barrels, held together by joists and 



LES MISEBABLES 


407 


planks, passed through the wheels of a truck and an omnibus, 
had a bristling and inextricable appearance. A gap, sufficiently 
wide for one man to pass, was left between the house wall 
and the end of the barricade furthest from the wine-shop, so 
that a sortie was possible. The pole of the omnibus was held 
upright by ropes, and a red flag fixed to this pole floated 
over the barricade. The small Mond6tour barricade, con- 
cealed behind a wine-shop, could not be seen, but the two 
barricades combined formed a real redoubt. Enjolras and 
Courfeyrac had not thought it advisable to bamcade the other 
portion of the Rue Mond6tour, which opens on to the Halles, 
as they doubtless wished to maintain a possible communica- 
tion with the outside and had but little fear of being 
attacked by the difficult and dangerous Rue des Precheurs. 
With the exception of this issue left free, which constituted 
what Folard would have called, in a strategic style, a zigzag, 
and of the narrow passage in the Rue de la Chanvrerie, the 
interior of the barricade in which the wine-shop formed a 
salient angle, presented an irregular quadrilateral, enclosed 
on all sides. There was a space of twenty yards between the 
great barricade and the tall houses which formed the end of 
the street, so that it might be said that the barricade leant 
against these houses, which were all inhabited, but closed from 
top to bottom. 

All this labour was completed without any obstacle, in less 
than an hour, during which this handful of men had not 
seen a single bearskin-cap or bayonet. The few citizens who 
still venturing at this moment of riot into the Rue St. Denis 
took a glance into the Rue de Chanvrerie, perceived the 
barricade, and doubled their pace. When the two barricades 
were completed and the flag was hoisted, a table was pulled 
from the wine-shop into the street, and Courfeyrac got upon 
it. Enjolras brought up a square chest, which Courfeyrac 
opened, and it proved to be full of cartridges. When they 
saw these cartridges the bravest trembled, and there was a 
moment’s silence. Courfeyrac distributed the cartridges 
smilingly, and each received thirty : many had powder, and 
began making others with bullets which had been cast on the 
spot ; they also had a powder barrel, on a separate table, near 
the door, which was held in reserve. The assembly, which 
was traversing the whole of Paris, did not cease, but in the end 



408 


LES MISEBABLES 


it had become a monotonous sound, to which they no longer 
paid any attention. This noise at one moment retired, at 
another came nearer, with lugubrious undulations. The guns 
and carbines were loaded all together, without precipitation 
and with a solemn gravity. Enjolras then stationed three 
sentries outside the barricades, one in the Bue do la Chanv- 
rerie, the second in the Bue des Precheurs, the third at the 
corner of the Petite Truanderie. Then, when the barricades 
were built, the posts assigned, the guns loaded, the sentries 
set, the insurgents alone in these fohnidable streets, through 
which no one now passed, surrounded by dumb and, as it were, 
dead houses, in which no human movement palpitated, envel- 
oped in the menacing darkness, in the midst of that silence and 
obscurity in which they felt something advancing, and which 
had something tragical and terrifying about it, isolated, armed, 
determined, and tranquil — ^they waited. 

Night set in, and nothing had yet occurred, only confused 
rumours and fusillades now and then could be heard, but they 
were rare, badly maintained, and distant. This respite, 
which was prolonged, was a sign that the Government was 
taking its time and collecting its strength. These fifty men 
were waiting for the coming of sixty thousand. Enjolras 
was attacked by that impatience which seizes on powerful 
minds when they stond on the threshold of formidable events. 
He looked up Gavroche, who was busy manufacturing cartridges 
in the ground-floor room by the dubious light of two candles 
placed on the bar for precaution, on account of the gunpowder 
sprinkled over the tables. These two candles threw no rays 
outside, and the insurgents allowed no light in the upper 
floors. Gavroche was at this moment greatly ocoupied, 
though not precisely with his cartridge. 

A recruit who had joined them at the Bue des Biiiett&lt;^i” 
had come into the room and seated himself at the least-lighted 
table. ^A Brown Bess of the large model had fallen to his 
■hare, and he held it between his legs. Gavroche up to this 
moment, distracted by a hundred ** amusing ** things, had not 
even seen this man. When he entered Gavroche looked after 
him, mechanically admiring his musket, but when the man 
was seated the gamin suddenly rose. Those who might have 
watched this man would have noticed him observe everything 
in the barricade, and the band of insurgents, with singular 



LES MISEBABLES 


409 


attention, but when he entered the room he fell into a state 
of contemplation, and seemed to see nothing of what was go- 
ing on. \The gamin approached this pensive man, and began 
walking round him on tip-toe, in the same way as people 
move round a man whom they are afraid of awaking. At 
the same time all the grimaces of an old man passed over his 
childish face, at once so impudent and so serious, so giddy 
and so profound, so gay and so afiecting, and these grimaces 
signified, “ Oh stuff ! it is not possible, I must see double — 
I am dreaming — can it be ? — no, it is not — yea, it is — no, it 
is not.*^ Gavroche balanced himself on his heels, clenched his 
fists in his pockets; moved his neck like a bird, and expended 
on an enormously outstretched lip all the sagacity of a lower 
Up. He was stupefied, uncertain, convinced, and dazzled. 
He looked like the chief of the eunuchs at the slave-market 
discovering a Venus among the girls, and the air of an amateur 
recognizing a Raphael in a pile of daubs. All about him was at 
work, the instinct that scents and the intellect that combines ; 
it was plain that an event was happening to Gavroche. It was 
when he was deepest in thought that Enjolras accosted him. 

“ You are Uttle," he said, “ and will not be seen. Go out of 
the barricades, slip along the houses, pass through as many 
streets as you can, and come back to teU me what is going on.^^ 
Gavroche drew himself up. 

** So little ones are good for something ! that's lucky ! Fm 
off. In the meanwhile, trust to the Uttle, and distrust the 
big,” and Gavroche, raising his head and dropping his voice, 
added, as he pointed to the man of the Bue des Billettes,— 
“ You ‘see that taU fellow I 
Well 1 ” 

He's a spy.” 

Are you sure ! 

“ Not a fortnight back he pulled me down by the ear from 
the cornice of the Pont Boyal where I was taking the air,” 
Enjolras hurriedly left the gamin, and whispered a few 
words to a labourer from the wine-docks who was present. 
The labourer went out and returned almost immediately, fol- 
lowed by three others. The four men, four broad-shouldered 
porters, stationed themselves silently behind the table at which 
the man was seated, in evident readiness to fall upon him, 
and then Enjolras walked up to the man and asked him,— 



410 


LES MISEBABLES 


** Who are you ? ” 

At this sudden question the man started, he looked into 
the depths of Enjolras’ candid eyeballs, and seemed' to read 
his thoughts. He gave a smile, which was at once the most 
disdainful, energetic, and resolute possible, and answered, 
with a haughty gravity, — 

“ I see what you mean, — ^well, yes ! ” 

“ Are you a spy ? ” 

“ I am an agent of the authority I 
And your name is — ? ” 

“ Javert.” 

Enjolras gave the four men a sign, and in a twinkling, be- 
fore Javert had time to turn round, he was collared, thrown 
down, bound and searched. They found on him a small 
round card fixed between two pieces of glass, and bearing on 
one side the arms of France, with the motto, “ Surveillance 
and vigilance,” and on the other this notice, “ Javert, police 
Inspector, fifty-two years of age,” and the signature of the 
Prefect of Police of that day, M. Gisquet. He had also a 
watch and a purse containing some pieces of gold, and both 
were left him. Behind his watch, at the bottom of his fob, a 
paper was found, which l^njolras unfolded, and on which he 
read these lines, wTitten by the Prefect of Police himself, — 
“ So soon as his political mission is concluded, Javert will 
assure himself by a special watch whether it is true that 
criminals assemble on the slope of the right bank of the Seine 
near the Bridge of Jena." 

When the search was ended Javert was raised from the 
ground, his arms were tied behind his back, and he was fastened 
in the middle of the room* to the celebrated post which in 
olden times gave its name to the wine-shop. Ga^oche, 
who had watched the whole scene, and approved of everything 
with a silent shake of the head, went up to Javert, and 
said, — 

“The mouse has trapped the cat." 

All this took place so quickly that it was completed be- 
fore those outside the wine-shop were aware of it. Javert 
had not uttered a cry, but, on seeing him fastened to the 
post, Courfeyrae, Bossuet, Combeferre, Joly, and the men 
scattered over the two barricades, flocked in. Javert, who 
was surrounded with cords so that he could not $tir, raised 



LES MISERABLES 411 

his head with the intrepid serenity of a man who has never 
told a mlschood. 

The tmgical picture we have undertaken would not be 
complete, the reader would not see in their exact and real 
relief those great moments of social Ijdng-in and revolution- 
ary giving birth, in which there are throes blended with efiort, 
if we were to omit in our sketch an incident full of an epic 
and stem horror, which occurred almost immediately after 
Gavroche’s departure. 

Bands of rioters, it ia well known, resemble a snowball, 
and, as they roll along, agglomerate many tumultuous men, 
who do not ask each other whence they come. Among the 
passers-by who joined the band led by Enjolras, Combeferro, 
and Courfeyrac, there was a man wearing a porter’s jacket, 
much worn at the shoulders, who gesticulated and vocifer- 
ated, and had the appearance of a drunken savage. This 
man, whose name or nickname was Le Cabuc, and entirely 
unknown to those who pretended to know him, was seated 
in a state of real or feigned intoxication, with ^four others, 
round a table which they had dragged out of the wine-shop. 
This Cabuc, while making the others drink, seemed to be 
gazing thoughtfully at the large house behind the barricade, 
whose five storeys commanded the whole street, and faced 
the Rue St. Denis. All at once he exclaimed, — 

“Do you know what, comrades, we must fire from that 
house. When we are at the windows, hang me if any one 
can come up the street.’* 

“ Yes, but the house is closed,” said one of the drinkers. 

“We’ll knock.” 

“Tl\ey won’t open.” 

Then we’ll break in the door.” 

Le Cabuc ran up to the door, which had a very massive 
knocker, and rapped ; as the door was not opened he rapped 
again, and no one answering, he gave a third rap, but the 
silence continued. 

“ Is there any one in here I ” Le Cabuc shouted. But 
nothing stirred, and so he seized a musket and began ham- 
mering the door with the butt end. It was an old, low, nar- 
row, solid door, made of oak, lined with sheet iron inside and 
a heavy bar, and a thorough postern gate. The blows made 
the whole house tremble, but did not shake the door. The 



412 


LES MISEBABLES 


inhabitants, however, were probably alarmed, for^a little 
square trap window was at length lit up and openr^ on the 
tUrd storey, and a candle and the grey-haired head of a ter- 
rified old man, who was the porter, appeared in the orifice. 
The man who was knocking left off. 

“ What do you want, gentlemen 1 ” the porter askedi 

“ Open the door I ” said Le Cabuo. 

“ I cannot, gentlemen.” 

” Open, I tell you 1 ” 

It is impossible, gentlemen.” • 

Le CabuG raised his musket and took .aim at the porter, 
but as he was below, and it was very dark, the porter did not 
notice the fact. 

“ Will you open ? yes or no.” 

“ No, gentlemen.” 

” You really mean it ? ” 

“I say no, my kind 

The porter did not finish the sentence, for the musket 
was fired ; the bullet entered under his chin and came out of 
his neck, after passing through the jugular vein. The old 
man fell in a heap, without heaving a sigh, the candle went 
out, and nothing was visible save a motionless head lying on 
the sill of the window, and a small wreath of smoke ascend- 
ing to the roof. 

” There,” said Le Cabuc, as he let the butt of the musket 
fall on the pavement again. 

He had scarce uttered the word ere he felt a hand laid 
on his shoulder with the tenacity of an eagle’s talon, and he 
heard a voice saying to hjm, — 

” On your knees 1 ” 

The murderer turned, and saw before him Enjolras’ white, 
cold face. Enjolras held a pistol in his hand, and had hurried 
up on hearing the shot fired, and clutched with his left hand 
Le Cabuc’s blouse, shirt, and braces. 

“ On your knees,” he repeated. 

And with a sovereign movement the frail young man of 
twenty bent like a reed the muscular and robust porter, and 
forced him to kneel in the mud. Le Cabuc tried to resist, 
but he seemed to have been seized by a superhuman hand* 
Enjolras, pale, bare-neck, with his dishevelled hair and 
feminine face, had at this moment I know not what of the 



413 


LES MISERABLES 

ancient ^hernia. His dilated 'nostrils, his downcast eyes, 
gave to ids implacable Greek profile that expression of wrath 
and that expression of chastity which, in the opinion of the 
old world, are becoming to justice. All the insurgents had 
hurried up, and then ranged themselves in a circle at a dis- 
tance, feeling that it was impossible for them to utter a word in 
the presence of what they were going to see. Le Cabuc con- 
quered, no longer attempted to struggle, and trembled all 
over : Enjolras looged his grasp, and took out his watch. 

“ Pray or think I ” he sajd, “ you have one minute to do so.’* 

“ Mercy I ” the murderer stammered, then hung his head 
and muttered a few inarticulate execrations. 

Enjolras did not take his eyes off the watch ; he let the 
minute pass, and then put the watch again in his fob. Tliis 
done, he seized Le Cabuc by the hair, who clung to his knees 
with a yell, and placed the muzzle of the pistol to his ear. 
Many of these intrepid men, who had so tranquilly entered 
upon the most frightful of adventures turned away their 
heads. The explosion was heard, the assassin fell on his 
head on the pavement, and Enjolras drew himself up, and 
looked round him with a stem air of conviction. Then he 
kicked the corpse and said, — 

“ Throw this outside.” 

Enjolras, silent and collected, his virgin lips closed, stood 
for some time at the spot where he had shed blood, in the 
motionlessness of a marble statue. His fixed eye caused people 
to talk in whispers around him. Jean Prouvaire and Cora- 
beferre shook their heads silently, and leaning against each 
other in an angle of the barricade, gazed, with an admiration 
in which there was compassion, at this grave young man 
who was an executioner and priest, and had at the same time 
the light and the hardness of crystal. Let us say at once, 
that after the action, when the corpses were conveyed to the 
Morgue and searched, a police-agent’s card was found on Le 
Cabuo ; the author of this work had in his hands in 1848 the 
special report on this subject made to the Prefect of Police 
in 1832. Let us add that if we may believe a strange but 
probably well-founded police tradition, Le Cabuc was Claquc- 
sous. It is certainly true that, after the death of Cabuc, 
Claquesous was never heard of again, and left no trace of his 
disappearance. He seemed to have become amalgamated 



4U 


LES MISEBABLSS 


with the inviBible ; his life had been gloom, and his/ end was 
night. The whole insurgent band were still suifenng from 
the emotion of this tragical trial, so quickly begqn and so 
quickly ended, when Courfeymc saw again at the barricade 
a short young man who had come to his lodgings to ask for 
Marius ; and who, though he had a bold and reckless look, 
had also something feminine in his appearance. 

Marius, too, was with the insurgents. The voice which 
through the twilight had summoned him to the barricade in 
the Rue de la Chaiivrerie had produced on him the effect of 
the voice of destiny. He wished to die, and the opportunity 
offered ; he rapped at the door of the tomb, and a hand 
held out the key to him from the shadows. Buch gloomy 
openings in the darkness just in front of despair are tempting; 
Marius removed the bar which had so often allowed him to 
pass, left the garden, and said, ** 1 will go.’* He began walk- 
ing rapidly, and he happened to be armed, as he had Javert’s 

E istols in his pocket. The young man whom he fancied that 
e had seen had got out of his sight in the streets. 

Marius entered the Rue 8t. Honor6 by the passage De- 
lorme. The shops were closed there, the tradesmen were 
conversing before their open doors, people walked along, the 
lamps were lighted, and from the first-floor upwards the 
houses were illumined as usual. Cavalry were stationed on 
the square of the Palais Royal. Marius followed the Rue St« 
Honor4, and the further he got from the Palais Royal the 
fewer windows were lit up, the street grew darker, and at 
the same time the crowd denser, for the passers-by had now 
become a crowd. Near the Arbre Sec Fountain sombre 
groups were standing among the comers and goers like stones 
in the middle of a running stream. At the entrance of the 
Rue des Prouvaires, the crowd no longer moved, it was a 
solid, almost impenetrable mob of persons packed together 
and conversing in a low voice. There were hardly any black 
coats or round hats present, only fustian jackets, blouses, 
caps, and bristling beards. Beyond this dense crowd there 
was not a window lit up in the surrounding streets, and the 
solitary and decreasing rows of lanterns could only be seen in 
them. The street-lanterns of that day resembled large red 
stars suspended from ropes, and cast on to the pavement a 
shadow which had the shape of a large spider. These streets. 



LES MISEBABLES 


415 


towevci| were not deserted, and piled muskets, moving bay- 
onets, aild troops bivouacking could be distinguished in them. 
No curioiks person went beyond this limit, and circulation 
ceased there ; there the mob ended and the army began. 
He made a circuit, came to the Rue de B6thisy, and pro- 
ceeded in the direction of. the Halles; at the comer of the 
Rue des Bourdonnais the lanterns ceased. After crossing the 
zone of the mob he passed the border of troops, and now 
found himself in soijiething frightful. There was not a way- 
farer, nor a soldier, nor Jdght, nothing but solitude, silcmce, 
and night, and a strangely piercing cold ; entering a street 
was something like entering a cellar. Still he continued to 
advance ; some one ran close past him ; was it a man ? a 
woman 1 were there more than one ? He could not have 
said, for it had passed and vanished. By constant circuits 
he reached a lane, which he judged to be the Rue de la Poterie, 
and towards the middle of that lane came across an obstacle. 
He stretched out his hands and found that it was an over- 
turned cart, and his feet recognized pools of water, holes, 
scattered and piled-up paving stones — it was a barricade 
which had been begun and then abandoned. He clambered 
over the stones and soon found himself on the other side of 
the obstacle ; he walked very close to the posts, and felt 
his way along the house walls. 

Marius reached the Halles ; there all was calmer, darker, 
and even more motionless than in the neighbouring streets. 
He reached the corner of that short piece of the Mond6tour 
Lane which was, as will be remembered, the sole communica- 
tion which Enjolras had maintained with the outer world. 
At the ^corner of the, last house oh his left, he stopped and 
peeped into the lane. A little beyond the dark corner formed 
by the lane and the Rue do la Chanvrerie, he noticed a little 
light on the pavement, a portion of a wine-shop, a lamp 
flickering in a sort of shapeless niche, and men crouching 
down with guns on their knees, — all this was scarce ten yards 
from him, and was the interior of a barricade. The houses 
that lined the right-hand side of the lane hid from him the 
rest of the wine-shop, the large barricade, and the flag. Marius 
had but one step to take, and then the unhappy young man sat 
down on a post, folded his arms, and thought of lus father. 
He thought of that heroic Colonel Pontmercy who had 



416 LES MISERABLES 

! 

left on all the victorious battle-fields of Europe drops of the 
same blood which Marius had in his veins ; who Sad lived 
with his waist-belt buckled, his epaulettes falling on his 
chest, his cockade blackened by smoke, his brow wrinkled 
by his helmet, and who, at the expiration of twenty years had 
returned from the great wars with his scarred cheek and smiling 
face, having done everything for France, and nothing against 
her. He said to himself that his own day had now arrived, 
that he too was going to be brave, intrepid, and bold, to rush to 
meet bullets, offer his chest to the ^bayonets, shed his blood, 
seek the enemy. He saw civil war opening like a gulf before him, 
and that he was going to fall into it ; then he shuddered. 

He thought of his father’s sword, which his grandfather 
had sold to the old clothes-dealer, and which ho had so pain- 
fully regretted. He said to himself that this valiant and 
chaste sword had done well to escape from him, and disappear 
angrily in the darkness ; that it fled away thus because it was 
intelligent, and foresaw the future, — ^the riots, the war of gut- 
ters, the war of paving-stones, fosillades from cellar-traps, 
and blows dealt and received from behind ; that, coming from 
Marengo and Austerlitz, it was unwilling to go to the Rue de 
la Chanvrerie, and after what it had done with the father 
refused to do that with the son ! 

CHAPTER XXI 

Nothing had come yet : it had struck ten by St. Merry’s, 
and Enjolras and Combeferre were sitting musket in hand 
near the sallyport of the great barricade. They did not 
speak, but were listening, brying to catch the dullest and most 
remote sound of marching. Suddenly, in the midst of this 
lugubrious calm, a clear, young, gay voice, which seemed* to 
come from the Rue St. Denis, burst forth, and began singing 
distinctly, to the old popular tune of Au dair de la lurie, these 
lines, terminating with a cry that resembled a cock-crow* 

Mon nez est en larmes, 

Mon ami Bugeaud, 

Pret’-moi tea gendarmes 
Pour leuT dire un moU 
En capote bleue. 

Pa poule au shako, 

Voici la banlieuel 
Co-cocorioo 1 



LES MISEBABLES 


417 


’Tia Gavroche,” said Enjolras. 

“ He fis warning ns,” said Combeferre. 

Hurric^ footsteps troubled the deserted streets, and a 
being more active than a clown was seen climbing over the 
omnibus, and Gavroche leaped into the square, out of breath 
and saying, — 

“ My gun ! here they are.” 

An electric shudder ran along the whole barricade, and 
the movement of. hands seeking guns was heard. 

Some minutes more ^lapsed, and then a measured, heavy 
tramp of many feet was distinctly heard from the direction of 
St. Leu ; this noise, at first faint, then precise, and then heavy 
and re-echoing, approached slowly without halt or interrup- 
tion, and with a tranquil and terrible continuity. Nothing 
was audible but this ; it was at once the silence and noise of 
the statue of the commendatore, but the stormy footfall and 
something enormous and multiple about it which aroused the 
idea of multitude at the same time as that of a spectre ; you 
might have fancied that you heard the fearful statue Legion 
on the march. The tramp came nearer, nearer still, and then 
ceased ; and the breathing of many men seemed to be audible 
at the end of the street. Nothing, however, was visible, 
though quite at the end in the thick gloom could be dis- 
tinguished a multitude of metallic threads, fine as needles 
and almost imperceptible, which moved about like that inde- 
scribable phosphoric network which we perceive under our 
closed eyelids just at the moment when we are falling asleep. 
These were bayonets and musket barrels on which the re- 
flection of the torch confusedly fell. There was another 
pause, as if both sides were waitiifg. AH at one a voice which 
was the more sinister because no one could be seen, and it 
seemed as if the darkness itself was speaking, shouted, — 

“ Who goes there t ” 

At the same time the click of muskets being cocked could be 
heard. Enjolras replied with a sonorous and haughty accent, — 

“ The French Bevolution ! ” 

Fire ! ” the voice commanded. 

A flash lit up all the frontage in the street, as if the door 
of a furnace had been suddenly opened and shut, and a fright- 
ful shower of bullets hurled against the barricade, and the 
flag fell. The discharge had been so violent and dense that 

o 



418 


LES MISEBABLES 


it cut the stafE asunder, that is to say, the extreme p^int of 
the omnibus pole. Bullets ricochetting from the comers of 
the houses, penetrated the barricade, and woundecy several 
men. The impression produced by this first discharge was 
chilling ; the attack was rude, and of a nature to mc^e the 
boldest think. It was plain that they had to do with a whole 
regiment at the least. 

M. Maboeuf was still with the insurgents; he had gone 
into the ground-floor room of the wine-shop and seated him- 
self behind the bar, where he was, so to speak, annihilated 
in himself. He seemed no longer to see or think. Courfeyrac 
and others had twice or thrice accosted him, warning him of 
the peril, and begging him to withdraw, but he had not ap- 
peared to hear them. When no one was speaking to him his 
lips moved as if he were answering some one, and so soon as 
people addressed him, his lips left off moving, and his eyes no 
longer seemed alive. A few hours before the barricade was 
attacked he had assumed a posture which he had not quitted 
since, with his two hands on his knees, and his head bent 
forward, as if he were looking into a precipice. Nothing 
could have drawn him out of this attitude, and it did not 
appear as if his mind were in the barricade. When every one 
else went to his post the only persons left in the room were 
Javert tied to the post, an insurgent with drawn sabre watch- 
ing over Javert, and Maboeuf. At the moment of the attack, 
at the detonation, the physical shock affected and as it were 
awoke him : he suddenly rose, crossed' the room, and while 
Enjolras was appealing for a volunteer to replace the flag 
the old man was seen on the threshold of the wine-shop. 
His presence produced a species of commotion in the groups, 
and the cry was raised, — 

“ It is the voter, the conventionalist, the representative 
of the people ! ** 

He probably did not hear it : he walked straight up to 
Bnjolras, the insurgents making way for him with a religious 
fear, tore the flag from Enjolras, who was holding it in his 
hand, and then, no one daring to arrest or help him, this old 
man of eighty, with shaking head, but firm step, slowly began 
ascending the staircase of paving-stones formed inside the 
barricade. This was so gloomy and so grand that ail around 
him cried ** Off with your hats.^' With each step he ascended 



LES lOSERABLES 


419 


the sce!ue became more frightful, his white hair, his decrepit 
face, hi? tall, bald, and wrinkled forehead, his hollow eyes, 
his ama^'^d and open month, and his old arm raising the red 
banner, stood out from the darkness and were magnified in 
the sanguinary brightness of the torch, and the spectators 
fancied they saw the spectre of '93 issuing from the ground 
holding the flag of terror in his hand. When he was on the 
last step, when this trembling and terrible phantom, standing 
on the pile of ruins, in the presence of twelve hundred in- 
visible gun-barrels, stood, ^facing death, and as if stronger than 
it, the whole barricade assumed a supernatural and colossal 
aspect in the datkness. There was one of those silences 
which only occur at the sight of prodigies ; and in the midst 
of this silence the old man brandished the red flag and 
cried, — 

Long live the revolution ! long live the republic ! fraternity ! 
equality I and death ! " 

A low and quick talking, like the murmur of a hurried 
priest galloping through a mass, was heard, — ^it was probably 
the police commissary making the legal summons at the other 
end of the street ; then the same loud voice which had shouted 
Who goes there ” cried, — 

“ Withdraw ! " 

M. Maboeuf, livid, haggard, with his eye-balls illumined 
by the mournful flames of mania, raised the flag about his 
head and repeated, — 

“ Long live the republic.'' 

“ Fire ! ” the voice commanded. 

A second discharge, resembling a round of grape-shot, 
burst against the barricade ; the old man sank on his knees, 
then rose again, let the flag slip from his hand, and fell back 
on the pavement like a log, with his arms stretched out like 
a cross. Streams of blood flowed under him, and his old, 
pale, melancholy face seemed to be gazing at heaven. One 
of those emotions stronger than man, which makes him forget 
self-defence, seized on the insurgents, and they approached 
the corpse with respectful horror. 

“ What men these regicides are," said Enjolras. 

Courteyrac whispered in Enplras* ear, — 

“ This is only between ourselves, as 1 do not wish to diminish 
the enthusiam, but this man was anything rather than a 



420 


LES MISEBABLES 


regicide. I knew him, and his name was Maboeufi I do 
not know what was the matter with him to-day, but he was 
a brave idiot. Look at his head.^' , 

“ The head of an idiot and the heart of Brutus h ” Enjol- 
ras replied, then he raised his voice. 

** Citizens ! such is the example which the old give to the 
young. We hesitated and he came ; we recoiled and he ad- 
vanced. This is what those who tremble with old age teach 
those who tremble with fear ! This aged man is august before 
his country ; he has had a long life and a magnificent death ! 
Now let us place his corpse under cover, let each of us defend 
this dead old man as he would defend his living father, and 
let his presence in the midst of us render the barricade impreg- 
nable ! 

During this period little Gavroche, who alone had not left 
his post, and had remained on the watch, fancied he could 
see men creeping up to the barricade : all at once he cried, 

Look out ! " Courfeyrac, Enjolrac, Jean Pourvaire, Combe- 
ferre, Joly, Bahorel, and Bossuet, all hurried tumultuously 
out of the wine-shop, but it was almost too late ; for they 
saw a flashing line of bayonets undulating on the crest of the 
barricade. Municipal Guards of tall stature penetrated, 
some by striding over the omnibus, others through the sally- 
port, driving before them the gamin, who fell back, but did 
not fly. The moment was critical ; it was that first formid- 
able minute of inundation when the river rises to the level 
of the dam and the water begins to filfer through the fissures 
of the dyke. One second more, and the barricade was cap- 
tured. Bahorel dashed at the first Municipal Guard who 
entered, and killed him wreh a shot from 1^ carbine ; the 
second killed Bahorel with a bayonet-thrust. Another had 
already levelled Courfeyrac, who was shouting Help I while 
the tallest of all of them, a species of Colossus, was marching 
upon Gavroche, with his bayonet at the charge. The gamin 
raised in his little arms Javert^s enormous m^et, resolutely 
aimed at the giant, and pulled the trigger. But the gun did 
not go off, as Javert had not loaded it : the Municipal Guard 
burst into a laugh, and advanced upon the lad. Before the 
bayonet had reached Gavroche, however, the nausket fell from 
the soldier's hands, for a bullet struck him in the middle of 
the forehead, and he fell on his back. . A second bullet struck 



LES MISERABLES 


421 


the other Guard, who had attacked Courfeyrac, in the middle 
of the chest, and laid him low. 

The sl^ts were fired by Marius, who had just entered the 
barricade. 

Marius, still concealed at the corner of the Rue Mond6- 
tour, had watched the first phase of the combat with shud- 
dering •irresolution. Still he was unable to resist for any 
length of time that mysterious and sovereign dizziness which 
might be called the appeal from the abyss : and at the sight 
of the imminence of the peril, of M. Maboeuf's death, that 
mournful enigma^ Bahorel killed, Courfeyrac shouting for 
help, this child menaced, and his friends to succour or revenge, 
all hesitation vanished, and he rushed into the medley pistols 
in hand. With the first shot he saved Gavroche, and with 
the second delivered Courfejrrac. On hearing the shots, 
and the cries of the guards, the assailants swarmed up the 
entrenchment, over the crest of which could now be seen 
more than half the bodies of Municipal Guards, troops of the 
line, and National Guards from the suburbs, musket in hand. 
They already covered more than two-thirds of the barricade, 
but did not dare to leap down into the enclosure, and hesi- 
tated, as if they feared some snare. They looked down into 
the gloomy space as they would have peered into a lion's den ; 
and the light of the torch only illumined bayonets, bearskin 
shakos, and anxious and irritated faces. 

Marius had no lon^r a weapon, as ho had thrown away 
his discharged pistols, but he had noticed the barrel of gun- 
powder near the door of the ground-floor room. As he half 
turned to look in that directional soldier levelled his musket 
at him, and at the moment when the soldier was taking steady 
aim at Marius, a hand was laid on the muzzle of his musket 
and stopped it up ; a young workman in velvet trousers had 
rushed forward. The shot was fired, the bullet passed through 
the hand, and probably through the workman, for he fell, but 
did not hit Marius. Marius, who was entering the wine- 
shop, hardly noticed this ; still he had confusedly seen the 
gun pointed at him, and the hand laid on the muzzle, and 
had heard the explosion. But in minutes like this things that 
men see vacillate, and they do not dwell on anything, for they 
feel themselves obscurely impelled toward deeper shadows 
still, and all is mist. The insurgents, surprised out not ter* 



422 


LES MISERABLES 


rified, had rallied, and Enjolras cried, “ Wait, do not throw 
away your shot ! " and in truth, in the first moment of con- 
fusion they might wound each other. The majority had gone 
up to the first-floor and attic windows, whence they com- 
manded the assailants, but the more determined, with En- 
jolras, Courfeyrac, Jean Prouvaire, and Combeferre, were 
haughtily standing against the houses at the end, unprotected 
and facing the lines of soldiers and guards who crowned the 
barricade. All this was done without precipitation, and 
with that strange and menacing grc.vity which precedes a 
combat ; on both sides men were aiming at each other within 
point-blank range, and they were so near that they could 
converse. When they were at the point where the spark was 
about to shoot forth, an officer wearing a gorget and heavy 
epaulettes stretched out his sword, and said, — 

“ Throw down your arms ! " 

“ Fire ! " Enjolras commanded. 

The two detonations took place at the same moment, and 
everything disappeared in smoke, a sharp and stifling smoke 
in which the dying and the wounded writhed, with faint and 
hollow groans. When the smoke dispersed, the two lines of 
combatants could be seen thinned, but at the same spot, and 
silently reloading their guns. All at once a thundering voice 
was heard shouting, — 

“ Begone, or I will blow up the barricade ! ” 

All turned to the quarter whence tl^e voice came. 

Marius had entered the wine-shop, fetched the barrel of 
gunpowder, and then, taking advantage of the smoke and ob- 
scure mist which filled the entrenched space, glided along 
the barricade up to a cage ot paving-stones in which a .torch 
was fixed. To tear out the torch, place in its stead the barrel 
of powder, throw down the pile of paving-stones on the barrel, 
which was at once unheaded with a sort of terrible obedience, 
had only occupied so much time as stooping and rising again ; 
and now all, National Guards and Municipal Guards, officers 
and privates, collected at the other end of the barricade, 
gazed at him in stupor, as he stood with one foot on the 
paving-stone, the torch in his hand, his haughty face illumined 
by a fatal resolution, approaching the flame of the torch to the 
formidable heap in which the broken powder-barrel could be 
distinguished, and uttering the terrifying cry, — 



LES MISERABLE3 


423 


\ 

Begone, or I will blow up the barricade ! ” 

Marius, on this barricade after the octogenarian, was the 
vision of the young revolution after the apparition of the old 
one. ^ 

“ Blow up the barricade I ” a sergeant said, “ and yourself 
too ! ” 

Marius answered, “ and myself too I 

And he lowered the torch toward the barrel of gunpowder ; 
but there was na one left on the barricade ; the assailants 
leaving their dead and their wounded, fell back pellmell and in 
disorder to the end of the street, and disappeared again in the 
night. It was a sauve qui peut, and the barricade was saved. 
All surrounded Marius, and Courfeyrac fell on his neck. 

“ Here you are 1 ” 

‘‘ What happiness ! ” said Combeferre. 

‘‘ You arrived just in time,” said Bossuet. 

“ Were it not for you I Aould be dead I Courfeyrac re- 
marked. 

“ Without you I should have been goosed,” Gavroche added. 

Marius asked, — 

Who is the leader I ” 

Yourself,” Enjolras replied. 

Marius the whole day through had had a furnace in his 
brain, but now it was a tornado, and this tornado which was 
in him produced on him the effect of being outside him and 
carrying him away. *It seemed to him as if he were already 
an immense distance from life, and his two luminous months 
of joy and love suddenly terminated at this frightful precipice. 
Cosette lost to him, this barricade, M. Maboeuf letting himself 
be killed for the Republic, himself chief of the insurgents — 
all these things seemed to him a monstrous nightmare, and he 
was obliged to make a mental effort in order to remind himself 
tliat aU which surrounded him was real. Marius had not 
lived long enough yet to know that nothing is so imminent as 
the impossible, and that what must be always foreseen is the 
unforeseen. He witnessed the performance of his own drama, 
as if it were a piece of which he understood nothing. In his 
mental fog he did not recognize Javert, who, fastened to his 
post, had not made a movement of his head during the attack 
on the barricade, and saw the revolt buzzing round him with 
the resignation of a martyr and the majesty of a judge. In the 



424 


LES MISERABLES 


meanwhile, the assailants no longer stirred ; they could be 
heard marching and moving at the end of the street, but did 
not venture into it, either because they were waiting for orders, 
or else required reinforcements, before rushing again/hpoii this 
impregnable redoubt. The insurgents had posted sentries, 
and some who were medical students had begun dressing 
wounds. All the tables had been dragged out of the wine- 
shop, with the exception of the two reserved for the lint and 
the cartridges, and the one on which Father Maboeuf lay. 

It is a singularity of this sort of ,war, that the attack on 
barricades is almost always made in the front, and that the 
assailants generally refrain from turning positions, either 
because they suspect ambuscades, or are afraid to enter wind- 
ing streets. The whole attention of the insurgents was, conse- 
quently, directed to the great barricade, which was evidently 
the constantly threatened point, and the contest would infalli- 
bly recommence there. Marius, however, thought of the little 
barricade, and went to it ; it was deserted, and only guarded 
by the lamp which flickered among the paving stones. How- 
ever, the Mondetour Lane and the branches of the little Tru- 
andcrie were perfectly calm. As Marius, after making his 
inspection, was going back, he heard his name faintly uttered 
in the darkness, — 

“ Monsieur Marius ! ” 

He started, for he recognized the voice which had sum- 
moned him two hours back through the garden railings in the 
Rue Plumet. 

“ Monsieur Marius I ” the voice repeated ; this time he 
could not doubt, for he had heard distinctly ; he looked around 
but saw nothing. 

“ At your feet,” the voice said. 

He stooped down, and caught a glimpse of a pale face raised 
to him, and said, — 

“ Do you not recognize me f ** 

No.” 

“ Eponine.” 

Marius eagerly stooped down ; ft was really that hapless 
gill, dressed in male clothes. Eponine, it seems, under the 
influence of her jealousy of Cosette, having learned at Cour- 
feyrac's their intention of going to the Barricades, had 
reckoned on Marius’s despair on the disappearance of her he 



LES MISEBABLES 


425 


loved, and in the tragic hope of jealous souls that he might at 
least die with her, had given him that mysterious summons to 
the post of danger which she knew he would not disregard. 

“ Wh£4 brought you here ? M hat are you doing ? ” 

** Dying,” she said to him. 

There are words and incidents that wake up crushed beings ; 
Marius cried with a start, — 

“ You are wounded I wait, I will carry you into the wine- 
shop 1 your wound will be dressed ! where is it you suffer ? ” 

And he tried to pass^his hand under her to lift her, and as 
he did so he touched her hand — she uttered a faint cry. 

“ Have I hurfyou ? ” Marius asked, “ I only touched your 
hard.” 

She raised her hand to Marius’s eye, and he could see a hole 
right through it. 

“ What is the matter with your hand I ” he said- 

“It is pierced.” 

‘‘What with?” 

“ A bullet.” 

“ How ? ” 

“ Did you see a musket aimed at you 1 ” 

“ Yes, and a hand laid on the muzzle.” 

“ It was mine.” 

Marius shuddered. 

“ What madness ! poor child ! but all the better, if that is 
your wound, it is nothing, so let me cariy you to a bed. Your 
wound will be dressed, and people do not die of a bullet 
through the hand.” 

She murmured, — 

“ The bullet passed through Efty hand, but came out of my 
back) so it is useless to move me from here. I will tell you 
how you can do me more good than a surgeon ; sit down by 
my side on that stone.” 

He obeyed ; she laid her head on his knees, and without 
looking at him, said, — 

“ Oh, how good that is, how comforting ! There ! I do 
not suffer now. 

She was almost sitting up, but her voice was very low, and 
every now and then interrupted by the death-rattle. She put 
her face as close as she could to that of Marius, and added 
with a strange expression, — 



426 


LES MISBBABLES 


“ Come, I will not play you a trick : I have had a letter 
addressed to you in my pocket since yesterday ; I was told to 
put it in the post, but kept it, as I ^d not wish it te reach 
you. But, perhaps, you will not be angry with me ^j^hen we 
meet again ere long, for we shall meet again, shall we not t 
Take your letter ” 

She convulsively seized Marius’s hand with her wounded 
hand, but seemed no longer to feel the suffering. She placed 
Marius’s hand in her blouse pocket, and he really felt a paper. 

Marius took the letter and she gave a nod of satisfaction and 
consolation 

‘‘ Now, for my trouble ; promise me 

“What?” Marius asked. 

“ Promise me ! ” 

“ I do promise ! “ 

“ Promise to kiss me on the forehead when I am dead — 
I shall feel it/* 

She let her head fall again on Marius’s knees and her eyes 
closed — he fancied the poor soul departed. Eponine re- 
mained motionless, but all at once, at the moment when 
Marius believed her eternally asleep, she slowly opened her 
eyes, and said to him with an accent whose gentleness seemed 
already to come from another world, — 

“ And then, Monsieur Marius, I think that I was a little bit in 
love with you.” 

She tried to smile once more, and expired. 

Marius kept his promise ; he deposited a kiss on this livid 
forehead, upon which an icy perspiration beaded. It was not 
an infidelity to Cosette, but a pensive and sweet farewell to an 
unhappy soul. He gently laid her on the ground and went 
off, for something told him that he could not read this letter 
in the presence of a corpse. He walked up to a candle on 
the ground-fioor room ; it was a little note folded and sealed 
with the elegant care peculiar to women. The address was in a 
feminine handwriting, and ran, — 

“ To Monsieur, Monsieur Marius Pontmercy, at M. Cour- 
feyrac’s, No. 16, Rue de la Verrerie.”' 

He broke the seal and read : 

“ My well-beloved, — ^Alas, my father insists on our going 
away at once. We shall be this evening at No. 7, Bue de 
I’Homme Arm6, and within a week in London.— Cossttb* 
June 4.’^ 



LES MISERABLES 427 

Such was the innocence of their love, that Marius did not 
even know Cosette'a handwriting. 

What had happened may be told in a few words. Eponine 
had do^p it all. After the night of June 3 she had had a 
double thought, — to foil the plans of her father and the 
bandits upon the house in the Rue Plumet, and separate 
Marius and Cosette. It was she who gave Jean Valjean the 
expressive warning, and he had gone straight home and said 
to Cosette, “ We, shall start this evening and go to the Rue 
de THomme Arme with Toussaint. Next week we shall be 
in London. Cosette, startled by this unexpected blow, had 
hastily written Iwo lines to Marius, but how was she to put 
the letter in the post ? She never went out alone, and Tous- 
saint, surprised by such an errand, would certainly show the 
letter to M. Fauchelevent. In this state of anxiety, Cosette 
noticed through the railings Eponine in male clothes, who 
now incessantly prowled round the garden. Cosette had sum- 
moned “ this young workman," and gave him the letter and a 
five-franc piece, saying , — ** Carry this letter at once to its 
address,” and Eponine put the letter in her pocket. 

Marius covered Cosette's letter with kisses ; she loved 
him then ! and for a moment he had an idea that he ought 
not to die, but then he said to himself, ” Her father is taking 
her to England, and my grandfather will not give his consent 
to the marriage ; no change has taken place in fatality.” Then 
he thought that two duties were left him to accomplish ; 
inform Cossette of his death, and send her his last farewell, 
and save from the imminent catastrophe which was preparing 
that poor boy, Eponine's brother and Thenardier's son. He 
had a pocket-book about Iiim, the same which had contained 
the paper on which he had written so many love-thoughts for 
Cosette ; he tore out a leaf, and wrote in pencil these few 
lines — 

“ Our marriage was impossible ; I asked my grandfather's 
consent, and he refused to give it ; I have no fortune, not 
have you. I ran to your hoiuse, and did not find you there ] 
you remember the pledge I made to you, and I have kept it. 
I die. I love you, and when you read this my soul will be 
near you, and smile upon you.” 

Having nothing with which to seal this letter, he merely 
folded it, and wrote on it the address, 



428 


LES MISERABLES 


** To Mademoiselle Cosette Fauchelevent, at M. Fauchele- 
vent's, No. 7, Rue de THomme Arm6." 

The letter folded, he stood for a moment in thought, then 
opened his pocket-book again, and wrote with ^he same 
pencil these lines on the first page. 

“ My name is Marius Pontmercy. Carry my body to my 
grandfather, M. Gillenormand, No. 6, Rue des Filles du 
Calvaire, in the Marais.” 

He returned the book to his coat pocket, and then sum- 
moned Gavroche. The lad, on hearing Marius's voice, ran up 
with his joyous and devoted face. 

“ Will you do something for me ? ” said Marius. 

“ Everything,” said Gavroche. ” God of Gods ! my goose 
would have been cooked without you.” 

“ You see this letter ? ” 

“Yes.” 

“ Take it. Leave the barricade at once (Gavroche began 
scratching his ear anxiously), and to-morrow morning you 
will deliver it at its address. No. 7, Rue de THomme Arme.” 

The heroic lad replied, — 

“Well, but during that time the barricade will be attacked, 
and I shall not be here.” 

“ The barricade will not be attacked again till daybreak, 
according to all appearances, and will not be taken till to- 
morrow afternoon.” 

The new respite which the assailants granted to the barri- 
cade was really prolonged ; it was one of those intermittencea 
frequent in night-fights, which are always followed , by re- 
doubled obstinacy. 

“ Well,” said Gavroche, ‘^suppose I were to deliver . your 
letter to-morrow morning ? ” 

“It will be too late, for the barricade will probably be 
blockaded, all the issues guarded, and you will be unable to 
get out. Be ofi at once.” 

Gavroche could not find any reply, so he stood there un- 
decided, and scratching his head sorrowfully. AH at once he 
seized the letter with one of those bird-like movements of his. 

“ All right,” he said. 

And he ran ofi toward the Mond6tour Lane. Gavroche 
had an idea which decided him, but which he did not mention ; 
it was the following. 





LE3 MISSRABLES 


429 


** It is scarce midniglit, the Rue de I’Hoinme Arme is no 
great distance off. I will deliver the letter at once, and be 
back in time.” 

CHAPTER XXII 

On the evening of that same day, Jean Valjean, accom- 
panied by Cosette and Toussaint, proceeded to the Rue de 
THomme Arm6, where a tremendous incident was fated to 
take place, Cosette had not left the Rue Plumet without an 
attempt at resistance, %nd for the first time since they had 
lived together, the will of Cosette and the will of Jean Valjean 
had contradicted each other, though they did not come 
into collision. There was objection on one side, and inflexi- 
bility on the other : for the abrupt advice to move, thrown to 
Jean Valjean by a stranger, had alarmed him to such a point 
as to render him absolute, and Cosette was compelled to 
yield. The pair reached the Rue de THomme Arme without 
exchanging a syllable, for each was so deep in personal thought. 
Jean Valjean had brought Toussaint with liim, which he 
had never done in his previous absences, but he foresaw that 
he might possibly never return to the Rue Plumet, and he 
could neither leave Toussaint behind him nor tell her his 
secret. In his departure from the Rue Plumet, which was 
almost a flight, Jean Valjean took away with him nothing 
but the fragrant little portmanteau; christened by Cosette 
the inseparable, Cosette, herself, only took her desk and blot- 
ting-book. Jean Valjean, in order to heighten the solitude 
and mystery of this disappearance, had so arranged as to leave 
the Rue Plumet at night-fall, whyh had given Cosette the time 
to write her note to Marius. They reached the Rue de THomme 
Arm6 when it was quite dark. 

At about 5 o’clock, Toussaint, who went about very busy 
with this small moving, placed a cold fowl on the dinner-table, 
which Cosette consented to look at, through deference^ for 
her father. This done, protesting a persistent headache, 
she said good-night to Jean Valjean, and shut herself up in 
her bed-room. Jean Valjean ate a wing of the fowl with 
appetite, and with his elbows on the table, and gradually 
growing reassured, regained possession of his serenity. Whila 
he was eating this modest dinner, he vaguely heard twice or 
thrice stammering Toussaint say to him, “ There is a disturb- 



430 


LES MISERABLES 


ance, sir, and people are fighting in Paris.” But, absorbed 
in a mifititude of internal combinations, he had paid no 
attention to her ; truth to tell, he had not heard her. He 
rose and began walking from the door to the windbw, and 
from the window to the door, with calmness. Cosette, his 
sole preoccupation, reverted to his mind, not that he was 
alarmed hj this headache, a slight nervous attack, a girl’s 
pouting, a momentary cloud, which would disappear in a day 
or two, but he thought of the future, and, as^ usual, thought of 
it gently. After all, he saw no obstacle to his happy life 
resuming its course : at certain hours everything seems im- 
possible, at others everything appears easy, and JeanValjean 
was in one of those good hours. 

While slowly walking up and down, his eye suddenly fell 
on something strange. He noticed, facing him in the inclined 
mirror over the side-board, and read distinctly, — 

“ My well-beloved. Alas ! my father insists on our leaving 
at once. We shall be this evening at No. 7, Rue de I’Homme 
Arme, and within a week in London. — Cosette, June 4th.’* 
Jean Valjean stopped with haggard gaze. Cosette, on ar- 
riving, had laid her blotting-book on the side-board facing the 
mirror, and immersed in her painful thoughts, had forgotten 
it there, without even noticing that she left it open at the 
very page on which she had dried the few lines she had written 
and intrusted to the young workman passing along the Rue 
Plumet. The writing was imprinted on the blotting-paper, 
and the mirror reflected the writing. Jean Valjean wdked up 
to the mirror and read the lines again, but did not believe in 
them. They produced on hipa the efiect of appearing in a 
flash of lightning : it was an hallucination — it was impossible 
— it was not. Gradually his perception became more precise, 
he looked at Cosette’s blotting-bool^ and the feeling of the real 
fact returned to him. He took up the blotting-book, saying, 
“ It comes from that.” 

He held the book in his hand and gazed at it, stupidly hap- 
py, almost ready to laugh at the hallucination of which he had 
been the dupe. All at once his eyes fell again on the mirror, 
and he saw the vision again. Jean Valjean tottered, let the 
blotting-book slip from his grasp, and fell into the old easy- 
chair by the side of the side-board with hanging head and glassy, 
wandering eye. He said to himself that it was evident that 



LES MISEBABLES 


431 


tlie light of this world was eclipsed, Alas ! the supreme trial, we 
may say the sole trial, is the loss of the being whom we love. 
While Jean Valjean was thinking, Toussaint came in ; he rose 
and asfi^d her, — 

“ Do you know where about it is ? ” 

Toussaint, in her stupefaction, could only answer,— 

•*I beg your pardon, sir.” 

•* Did you not say just now that they were fighting ? ” 

Oh, yes, sir,” Toussaint replied ; ‘‘ over at St. Merry.” 

There are some mechanical movements which come to us, 
without our cognizance, from our deepest thoughts. It was 
doubtless under the impulse of a movement of this nature, that 
Jean Valjean found himself five minutes later in the street. 
He was bareheaded, and sat down on the bench before his 
house, seemingly listening. 

Night had set in. 

The street was deserted ; and a few anxious citizens who 
were hurriedly returning home scarce noticed him, for each for 
himself is the rule in times of peril. The lamplighter came as 
usual to light the lamp which was exactly opposite the door of 
No. 7, and went away. Jean Valjean would not have appeared 
to be a living man to any one who might have examined him in 
this gloom, and he sat on his bench motionless, like a statue 
of ice. His despair had got beyond congelation. The tocsin 
and vague stormy rumours could be heard, and in the midst 
of all these convulsions of the bell blended with the riot, the 
clock of St. Paul struck the eleventh hour, solemnly and with- 
out hurrying, for the tocsin is man, the hour is God. The 
passing of the hour produced no effect on Jean Valjean, and 
he did not stir. Almost immediately after, however, a sudden 
detonation broke out in the direction nf the Halles, followed by 
a second even more violent, — ^it was probably that attack on the 
barricade of the Rue de la Chanvrerie which we have just seen 
repulsed by Marius. At this double discharge, whose fury 
seemed increased by the stupor of the night, Jean Valjean start- 
ed ; he turned in the direction whence the sound came, but 
then fell back on his bench, crossed his arms, and his head slow- 
ly bent down again on his chest. Ho resumed his dark dialogue 
with himself. 

All at once he raised his eyes, for there was someone in the 
street ; by the light of the lamp he perceived a livid, young, and 



432 


LBS MISERABLES 


radiant face, in the direction of the street which runs past the 
Archives. It was Gavroche, who had just arrived from the 
Rue de la Chanvrerie ; Gavroche saw Jean Valjean distinctly, 
but paid no attention to him. After examining the i^ronts of 
several houses the gamin shrugged his shoulders, as if engaged 
in a colloquy with himself. Jean Valjean, who a moment pre- 
viously, in his present state of mind, would neither have 
spoken to nor answered any one, felt an irresistible impulse to 
address this lad. 

“ My little boy,” he said, ** what is iSie matter with you ? ” 

“ Nothing,” replied Gavroche. “ Do you belong to this 
street ? ” 

“ Yes, why ? ” 

** Can you point me out No. 7 ? ” 

“ What do you want at No. 7 ? ” 

Here the lad stopped, for he feared lest he had said too 
much. 

An idea flashed across Jean Valj can’s mind, for agony has 
lucidities of that nature. He said to the boy, — 

“ Have you brought me the letter which I am expecting ? ” 
You ? ” said Gavroche, “ you ain’t a woman.” 

The letter is for Mademoiselle Cosette, is it not ? ’* 
Cosette ? ” Gavroche grumbled ; ‘‘ yes, I think it is that 
name.” 

*• Well,” Jean Valjean continued, “ you have to deliver the 
letter to me, so give it here.” 

In that case, you must be aware that I am sent from the 
barricade ? ” 

“ Of course,” said Jean Vs-ljean. 

Gavroche thrust his hand into one of his pockets, - and 
produced a square folded letter ; then he gave the military 
salute. 

** Respect for the despatch,” he said ; ” it comes from the 
Provisional Government.” 

” Give it to me,” said Jean Valjean. 

” After all,” Gavroche continued, ” you look like an honest 
man.” 

” Make haste.” 

” Here it is.” 

And he handed the paper to Jean Valjean. 

”That letter comes from the barricade in the Rue de la 



LES MISERABLES 


433 


Chanyrerie, and I am going back to it. Good night, citizen.’* 

Jean Valjean re-entered with Marius’s letter; in which, 
when he opened it, he only saw these words, — 

“ — I di© : when you read this my soul will bo near you.” 

In the presence of this line he felt a horrible bedazzlement ; 
he remained for a moment as if crushed by the change of emo- 
tion which took place in him. He gazed at Marius’s letter with 
a species of drunken amazement, he had before his eyes this 
splendour, the death of the hated being. The letter was evi- 
dently written to be read by Cosette on the next morning : 
since the two vqlleys he had heard between 11 o’clock and 
midnight nothing had occurred : the barricade would not be 
seriously attacked till day-break, but no matter, from the mo- 
ment when “ that man ” is mixed up in this war, he is lost, 
he is caught in the cog-wheels. Jean Valjean felt himself 
delivered ; he was going to find himself once more alone with 
Cosette, the rivalry ceased, and the future began again. He 
need oidy keep the note in his pocket, and Cosette would never 
know what had become of “ that man.” All this said internally, 
he became gloomy : he went down and roused the porter. 
About an hour later Jean Valjean left the house in the uniform 
of a National Guard and armed. The porter had easily ob- 
tained for him in the neighbourhood the articles to complete his 
equipment : he had a loaded musket and a full cartouche- box. 
He proceeded in the direction of the barricades. 

The two most memorable barricades which the observer of 
social diseases can mention do not belong to the period in 
which the action of this book is laid. These two barricades, 
both symbols under different aspects of a formidable situation, 
emerged from the earth during {he fatal insurrection of June 
1848, the greatest street-war which history has seen. 

The St. Antoine ' barricade was monstrous, it was three 
storeys high and seven hundred feet in width. It barred from 
one comer to the other the vast mouth of the Faubourg, that 
is to say, three streets. There were nineteen barricades Jerect- 
ed in the streets behind the mother barricade, only, on seeing 
it, you felt in the Faubourg the immense agonizing sufiering 
which had reached that extreme stage in which misery desires 
a catastrophe. 

A quarter of a league further on, at the comer of the Rue 
ineiDe du Temple, which debouches on the boulevard near the 



434 


LES mSEBABLES 


Chateau d’Eau, if you boldly advanced your head beyond the 
point formed by the projection of the magazine Dallemagne, 
you could see in the distance across the canal, and at the high- 
est point of the ascent to Belleville, a strange wall rising to the 
second floor and forming a sort of connecting link between the 
houses on the right and those on the left, as if the street had 
folded back its Ughest wall in order to close itself up. This 
was built of paving-stones ; it was tall, straight, correct, cold, 
perpendicular, and levelled with the plumb-line and the 
square ; of course there was no cement, but, as in some Roman 
walls, this in no way disturbed its rigid architecture. From 
its height, its depth could be guessed, for the entablature was 
mathematically parallel to the basement. At regular distances 
almost invisible loopholes, resembling black threads, could be 
distinguished in the grey wall. This street was deserted through- 
out its length, and all the windows and doors were closed. In 
the background rose this bar, which converted the street into 
a blind alley; it was a motionless and tranquil wall, no one was 
seen, nothing was heard, not a cry, nor a sound, nor a breath. 
It was a sepulchre. The dazzling June sun inundated this 
terrible thing with light, — it was the barricade of the Faubourg 
du Temple. So soon as you reached the ground and perceived 
it, it was impossible even for the boldest not to become pensive 
in the presence of this mysterious apparition. It was adjusted, 
clamped, imbricated, rectilinear, symmetrical, and funereal, 
and there were there science and darkness. You felt that the 
chief of this barricade was a geometrician or a spectre, and as 
you gazed you spoke in a whisper. From time to time if any 
one, private, ofiicer, or repregentative of the people, ventured 
to cross the solitary road, a shrill faint whistling was heard, and 
the passer-by fell wounded or dead, or, if he escaped, a bullet 
could be seen to bury itself in some shutter, or the stucco of 
the wall. 

These two fortresses were built by two men, Cournet and 
Barthelemy : Cournet made the St. Antoine barricade, Barthe- 
lemy the Temple barricade, and each of them was the image of 
the man who built it. Cournet was a man of taU stature ; he 
had wide shoulders, a red face, a smashing fist, a brave heart, 
a loyal soul, a sincere and terrible eye. He was intrepid, 
energetic, irascible, and stormy ; the most cordial of men, and 
the most formidable of combatants. He had been an officer 



LES MISERABLES 


435 


in the navy, and from his gestures and his voice it could be 
divined that ho issued from the ocean and came from the tem- 
pest. Omitting the genius, there was in Cournet something of 
Danton, omitting the divinity, there was in Danton some- 
thing of Hercules. Barthelemy, thin, weak, pale, and taciturn, 
was a species of tragical gamin, who, having been struck by a 
policeman, watched for him, waited for him, and killed him, 
and at the age of seventeen was sent to the galleys. He came 
out and built this barricade. At a later date, when both were 
exiles in London, Barthelemy killed Cournet : it was a melan- 
choly duel. Some time after that, Barthelemy, caught in the 
cog-wheels of one of those mysterious adventures in which 
passion is mingled, catastrophes in which French justice sees 
extenuating circumstances, and English justice only sees death, 
was hanged. The gloomy social edifice is so built that, owing 
to material denudation and moral darkness, this wretched be- 
ing who had an intellect, certainly firm and possibly great, began 
with the galleys in France and ended with the gibbet in England. 
Barthelemy only hoisted one flag, — ^it was the black one. 

Sixteen years count in the subterranean education of re- 
volt, and June, 1848, knew a great deal more than June, 1832. 
Hence the barricade in the Rue de la Chanvrerie was only a 
sketch and an embryo, when compared with the two colossal 
barricades to which we have just referred, but for the period it 
was formidable. The insurgents under the eye of Enjolras, 
for Marius no longer looked at anything, had turned the night 
to good accoimt : the barricade had not only been repaired, 
but increased. It had been raised two feet, and iron bars 
planted in the paving-stones reeipmbled couched lances. All 
sorts ^of rubbish, added and brought from all sides, compli- 
cated the external confusion, and the redoubt had been cleverly 
converted into a wall inside and a thicket outside. A stair- 
case of paving-stones, which allowed the top of the barricade to 
be reached, was formed, the ground-floor of the room of the 
i nri was cleared out, the kitchen converted into an infirmary, 
the wounds were dressed, the powder, scattered about the 
tables and floor, was collected, bullets were cast, cartridges 
manufactured, lint plucked, the fallen arms distributed ; the 
dead were carried off and laid in a heap, in the Mond6tour Lane, 
of which they were still masters. The pavement remained for 
a long time red at that spot. Among the dead were four sub- 



436 


LES MISERABLES 


urban National Guards, and Enjolras ordered their uniforms to 
be laid on one side. Enjolras had advised two hours’ sleep, 
and his advice was an o^er, stiU only three or four took ad- 
vantage of it, and Feuilly employed the two hours engrav- 
ing this inscription on the wall, facing the wine-shop,—* 

“ LONO LIVE THE PEOPLES.” 

These four words, carved in the stone with a nail, could still 
be read on this wall in 1848. The three wortien took advantage 
of the respite to disappear entirely, Which allowed the insur- 
gents to breathe more at their ease ; and they, contrived to find 
refuge in some neighbouring house. Most of the wounded 
could and would still fight. There were, on a pile of mattresses 
and trusses of straw laid in the kitchen converted into an in- 
firmary, five men seriously wounded, of whom two were Muni- 
cipal Guards ; the wounds of the latter were dressed first. No 
one remained in the ground-floor room, save Maboeuf under his 
black cere-cloth, and Javert fastened to the post. 

” This is the charnel-house,” said Enjolras. 

In the interior of this room, which was scarce lighted by a 
solitary candle, the mortuary table at the end being behind the 
post like a horizontal bar, a sort of large vague cross resulted 
from Javert standing and Maboeuf lying down. Although the 
pole of the omnibus was mutilated by the bullets, sufficient re- 
mained for a flag to be attached to it. Enjolras, who possessed 
that quality of a chief of always doing what he said, fastened to 
it the bullet-pierced and blood-stained coat of the killed old 
man. No meal was possible, for there was neither bsead nor 
meat. The fifty men during, the sixteen hours they had stood 
at the barricade speedily exhausted the scanty provisions of the 
inn. At a given moment every barricade that holds out be- 
comes the raft of the Medme, and the combatants must resign 
themselves to hunger. They had reached the early hours of 
that Spartan day, June 6, when at the barricade of St. Merry, 
Jeanne, surrounded by insurgents who cried for bread, answer- 
ed, \^at for ? It is three o’clock, also at four we shall be 
dead.” As they could no longer eat, Enjolras prohibited drink- 
ing ; he put the wine under an interdict, and served out the 
spirits. Some fifteen full bottles, hermetically sealed, were 
found in the cellar, which Enjolras and Combeferre examined. 
Coxnbefem, on coming^up again, said, ” It belongs to Father 



LES MISEBABLES 


437 


Huoheloup’s stock at the time when he was a grocer.” “ It must 
be real wine,” Bossuet observed ; “ it is lucky that Grantaire is 
asleep, for, if he were up, we should have a difficulty in saving 
those bottles.” Enjolras, in spite of the murmurs, put his veto 
on the fifteen bottles, and in order that no one might touch 
them, and that they should be to some extent sacred, he had 
placed them under the table on which Father Mabceuf lay. 

At about two in the morning they counted their strength ; 
there were still thjrty-seven. Day was beginning to appear ; 
but the interior of the, barricade, that species of smaU yard 
taken from the street, was still bathed in darkness, and resem- 
bled, through the* vague twilight horror, the deck of a dismasted 
ship. The combatants moved about like black forms. Above 
this frightful nest of gloom the floors of the silent houses stood 
out lividly, and above them again the chimney-pots were assum- 
ing a roseate hue. The sky had that charming tint which may 
be white and may be blue, and the birds flew about in it with 
twitterings of joy. The tall house which formed the back- 
ground of the barricade looked to the east, and had a pink re- 
flection on its roof. At the third-floor window the morning 
breeze blew about the grey hair on the head of the dead man. 

Enjolras had gone out to reconnoitre, and had left by the 
Mond6tour Lane, keeping in the shadow of the houses. The 
tocsin of St. Merry, which had not ceased once since the pre- 
vious evening, could be heard, and this was a proof that the 
other barricade, the great one, Jeanne’s, still held out. All 
these hopes were interchanged by the groups with a species of 
gay and formidable buzzing, which resemble the war-hum of a 
swarm of bees. Enjolras reappeared returning from his gloomy 
walk in the external darkness. • 

“ The whole army of Paris is out,” he said, ” and one-third 
of that army is preparing to attack the barricade behind which 
you now are. There is, too, the National Guard. I distinguished 
the shakos of the fifth line regiment, and the guidons of the 
sixth legion. You will be attacked in an hour ; as for the 
people, they were in a state of ferment yesterday, but this morn- 
ing do not stir. There is nothing to wait for, nothing to hope ; 
no more a faubourg than a regiment. You are abandoned.” 

” Be it so,” a voice replied. “ Let us raise the barricade to 
a height of twenty feet, and all foil upon it. Citizens, let us of- 
fer the protest of corpses, and show that if the people abandon 



438 


LES MISERABLES 


the republicans the republicans do not abandon the people.*. 

After the man, whoever he might be, who decreed the 
“ protest of corpses,” had spoken, and given the formula of the 
common soul, a, strangely satisfied and terrible cry issued from 
every mouth, :bnereal in its meaning, and trium;^al in its 
accent. 

“ Long live death ? Let us all remain here.” 

“ Why all ? ” Enjolras asked. 

“All, all I” 

Enjolras continued, — * 

“ The position is good and the barricade fine. Thirty men 
are sufficient, then why sacrifice forty ? ” 

They replied, — 

“ Because not one of us will go away.” 

“ Citizens,” Enjolras cried, and there was in his voice an 
almost irritated vibration, “ the republic is not rich enough in 
men to make an unnecessary outlay. If it be the duty of 
some to go away, that duty must be performed like any other.** 

"J'hen pointing to the four uniforms wliich, with their cross- 
belts and shakos, he had laid aside, he added : “ In this uniform 
it is easy to enter the ranks and escape. Here are four at any 
rate . ” 

And he threw the four uniforms on the unpaved ground ; 
but as no one moved in the stoical audience Combeferre re- 
solved to make an appeal. 

“ Come,” he said, “ you must show a little pity. Do you 
know what the question is here ? It is about women. Look 
you, are there wives, yes or no ? are there children, yes or no ? 
When a man supports his relatives by his toil, he has no 
longer any right to sacrifice ‘himself, for that is deserting his 
family. And then, too, those who have daughters, and those 
who have sisters I only think of them. You let yourselves be 
killed, you are dead, very good ; and to-morrow 1 It is terrible 
when girls have no bread, for a man begs, but a woman sells. 
I repeat, it is a question of wives, of mothers, of daughters, 
and babes. Am I saying anything about you ? I know very 
well what you are. I know that you are all brave. But you 
are not alone in this ivorld, and there are other beings of whom 
you must think; you should not be selfish.” 

All hung their heads with a gloomy air, strange contradio- 
tions of the human heart in the sublimest moments I Marius, 



LES MISEBABLES 


439 


fasting and feverish, who had successively given up all hopei 
cast ashore on grief, the most mournful of shipwrecks, saturated 
with violent emotions, and feeling the end coming, had buried 
himself deeper and deeper in that visionary stupor which ever 
precedes the fatal and voluntarily accepted hour. He had but 
one idea, to die, and he did not wish to avert his attention 
from it, but ho thought in his gloomy somnambulism that in 
destroying himself he was not prohibited from saving some- 
body. He raised l^is voice, — 

“ Enjolras and Combeferre are right,” he said, “ let us have 
no useless sacrifice. I join them, and we must make haste. 
Combeferre has told you decisive things : there are men among 
you who have families, mothers, sisters, wives, and children. 
Such must leave the ranks.” 

“ Citizens,” Enjolras added, “ wo have a republic here, and 
universal suffrage reigns. Point out yourselves the men who 
are to leave us.” 

They obeyed, and at the end of a few minutes five were 
unanimously pointed out and left the ranks. 

“ There are five of them ! ” Marius exclaimed. 

There were only four uniforms. 

“ Well,” the five replied, “ one will have to remain behind.” 

And then came who should remain, and who should find 
reasons for others not to remain. The generous quarrel began 
again. 

“Make haste,” Courfeyrac repeated. 

Cries to Marius came from the groups. 

You must point out the one who is to remain.” 

** Yes 1 ” the five said, “ do you choose, and we will obey you.” 

Marius did not believe himself capable of any emotion ; 
still al this idea of choosing a man for death all the blood 
flowed back to his heart, and he would have turned pale could 
he have grown paler. He walked up to the five, who smiled 
upon him, and each, wdth his eye full of that great flame which 
gleams through history on Thermopylae, cried to him, — 
“I! I! I!” 

And Marius stupidly counted them. There were still five ! 
Then his eyes settled on the four uniforms. All at once a fifth 
uniform fell, as if from heaven, on the other four ; the fifth 
man was saved. Marius raised his eyes, and recognized M. 
Fauchelevent. Jean Valjean had just entered the barricade j 



440 


LES MISEBABLES 


either through information he had obtained, through instinct, 
or through accident, he arrived by the Mond6tour Lane, and, 
thanks to his National Guard uniform, passed without difficulty. 
At the moment when Jean Valjean entered the redoubt, 
no one noticed him, for all eyes were fixed on the dive chosen 
men and the four uniforms. Jean Valjean, however, had seen 
and heard, and silently took ofi his coat and threw it on the pile 
formed by the other coats. The emotion was indescribable. 

“ Who is this man ? ” Bossuet asked. , 

“ He is a man,” Combeferre replie4. ** who saves his fellow- 
man.” 

Marius added in a grave voice, — 

I know him.” 

This bail was sufficient for all, and Enjolras turned to Jean 
Valjean. 

“ Citizen, you are welcome.” 

And ho added, — “ You are aware that you will die.” 

Jean Valjean, without answering, helped the man he was 
saving to put on his uniform. 

The five men selected left the barricade by the Mond6tour 
Lane, perfectly resembling National Guards. One of them wept 
as he went away, and before doing so they embraced those who 
remained. When the five men sent back to life had left, En- 
jolras thought of the one condemned to death. He went to the 
ground-floor room, where Javert, tied to the post, was reflecting. 

“ Do you want anything ? ” Enjolras asked him. 

Javert answered, — 

“ When will you kill me ? ” 

“Wait. We require all our cartridges at this nioment.” 

“ In that case, give me liome drink,” Javert said. 

Enjolras himself held out to him a glara of water, and, as 
Javert was bound, helped him to drink. 

“ Is that ail ? ” Enjolras resumed. 

“ I feel uncomfortable at this post,” Javert replied ; you 
did not act kindly in leaving me fastened to it the whole night. 
Bind me as you please, but you might surely lay me on a table, 
like the other man.” 

And with a nod of the head he pointed to M. Maboeufs 
&lt;)orp8e. Looking round, Enjolras observed at the end of 
the room a long wide table on which bullets had been run and 
cartridges made. All the cartridges being made, and all the 



LE3 MISERABLES 


441 


powder expended, this table was free- By Enjolrae’s order four 
insurgents unfastened Javert from the post, and while they did 
BO a ^th held a bayonet to his chest, ffis hands remained fast- 
ened behind his back, a thin strong cord was attached to his 
feet, whiclf enabled him to walk fifteen inches, like those who 
are going to ascend the scaffold, and he was forced to walk to 
the table at the end of the room, on which they laid him securely 
fastened round the waist. While Javert was being bound a 
man standing in the door-way regarded him with singular 
attention, and the shadow this man cast caused Javert to turn 
his head. He raised his eyes and recognized Jean Valjean, 
but he did not even start, he merely looked down haughtily, 
and restricted himseU to saying, ** It is quite simple.” 

Meanwhile day had dawned, and though the streets were still 
deserted, there was a mysterious movement at a certain dis- 
tance off. It was evident that the critical moment was arriving, 
and, as on the previous evening, the vedettes fell back. The 
Mond6tour Lane having been blocked up during the night, the 
barricade was now impregnable, but they were enclosed within 
it. So soon as Enjokas had taken his double-barrelled gun, 
and placed himself at a species of parapet which he reserved 
for himself, all were silent ; a quick sharp crackling ran con- 
fusedly along the wall of paving-stones ^ it was the muskets 
being cocked. As on the previous evening, all their attention 
was turned upon the end of the street, which was now lighted 
up and visible. They had not long to wait ere the movement 
began again, ^distinctly in .the direction of St. Leu, but it did not 
resemble the sound of the first attack. A rattling of chains, 
the alarming rolling of a heavy weight, a clang of bronze lea^ 
ing oij the pavement, and a species of solemn noise, announced 
that a sinister engine was approaching. The fixity of the eyes 
turned toward the end of the street became stern, as a cannon 
appeared. The gunners pushed the gun on ; the limber was 
detached, and two men supported the carriage, while four were 
at the wheels, others followed with the tumbnl, and the lighted 
match could be seen smoking. 


“ Fire I ” shouted Enjolras. , ^ . x- 

The whole barricade burst into a flame, and the detonation 
was frightful : an avalanche of smoke covered and concealed the 
oun and the men. A few seconds after the cloud was disj^r^, 
and the gun and the men reappeared ; the gunners were bnng- 



442 


LES MISEBABLES 


ing it up to the front of the barricade^ slowly, correctly, and 
without hurry, not one had been wounded. 

“ Reload your guns,” said Enjolras. 

While the insurgents were reloading their guns the artillery- 
men loaded the cannon. The anxiety within the Redoubt was 
profound ; the shot was fired, and the detonation burst forth* 

“ Present ! ” a joyous voice cried. 

And at the same time as the cannon-ball struck the barri- 
cade, Gavroche bounded inside it. He came from the direction 
of the Rue du Cygne, and actively clambered over the accessory 
barricade which fronted the labyrinth of the b'ttle Truanderie* 
Gavroche produced greater efiect at the barricade than the 
cannon-ball did ; for the latter was lost in the heap of rubbish* 
It had broken a wheel of the omnibus, and finished the old 
truck, on seeing which the insurgents burst into a laugh.” 

“ Pray go on,” Bossuet cried to the gunners. 

Gavroche was surrounded, but he had not time to report 
anything, as Marius, shuddering, drew him on one side. 

“ What have you come to do here ? ” 

" What a question ? ” the boy said, “ and you, pray ? ” 

** Who told you to return ? I only trust that you have de- 
livered my letter at its address.” 

Gavroche felt some degree of remorse in the matter of the 
letter ; for, in his hurry to return to the barricade, he had got 
rid of it rather than delivered it. He took the simplest process 
to get out of the scrape, — ^he told an abominable falsehood. 

“ Citizen, I delivered the letter to the porter. The lady 
was asleep, and she will have the letter when she wakes.” 

Marius had two objects in sending the letter, — to bid Co- 
sette farewell and save Gavroche. He was obliged to satisfy 
himself with one half of what he wanted. The connexion 
between the sending of the letter and M. Fauchele vent’s pre- 
sence at the barricade occurred to his mind, and he pointed him 
out to Gavroche. 

“ Do you know that man I ” 

^“No,” said Gavroche. 

' Gavroche, in truth, as we know, had only seen Jean Valjean 
by night. The troubled and sickly conjectures formed in 
Marius’s mind were dissipated ; did he know M. Fauchelevent’s 
opinions t Perhaps he was a republican. Hence his presence 
in the action would be perfectly simple. 



LES MISERABLES 


443 


Enjolras was in the meanwhile watching at his loop-hole 
with open ears ; for the assailants, doubtless little satisfied with 
the gun-shot, had not repeated it. A company of line infantry 
had come to occupy the extremity of the street behind the 
gun. The soldiers unpaved the street, and erected with the 
stones a small low wall, a species of epaulement, only eighteen 
inches high, and facing the barricade. At the left-hand angle 
of this work could be seen the head of a suburban column, 
massed in the Rue St. Denis. Enjolras, from his post, fancied 
he could hear the peculiar sound produced by canister when 
taken out of its box, and he saw the captain of the gun change 
his aim and turn the gun*s muzzle slightly to the left. Then 
the gunners began loading, and the captain of the gun himself 
took the port-fire and walked up to the vent. 

“ Fall on your knees all along the barricade,” Enjolras shouted. 

But ere Enjolras’s order was executed, the discharge took 
place with the frightful rattle of a round of grape-shot. The 
shot was aimed at the opening in the redoubt, and ricochetted 
against the wall, killing two men and wounding three. If this 
continued the barricade would be no longer tenable, for the 
grape-shot entered it. There was a murmur of consternation. 

“ Let us stop a second round,” Enjolras said : and levelling 
his gun he aimed at the firer, who was leaning over the breech 
and rectifying the aim. The finer was a handsome young 
sergeant of artillery, fair, gentle-faced, and having the intelligent 
look peculiar to that predestined and formidable arm which, 
owing to its constant improvement, must end by killing war, 
Enjolras. pulled the trigger, and the fire flashed forth. The 
artilleryman turned twice on his jjjeel, with his arms stretched 
out before him, and his head raised as if to breathe the air, and 
then fell across the cannon motionless. His back could be 
seen, from the middle of which a jet of blood gushed forth; 
the bullet had gone right throng his chest, and he was dead. 

The fire of the assailants continued, and the musketry and 
grape-shot alternated, though without producing much mischief. 
The upper part of Corinth alone sufiered, and the first-floor and 
garret windows, pierced by slugs and bullets, gradually lost 
their shape. The combatants posted there were compelled to 
withdraw, but, in fact, such are the tactics of an attack on a 
barricade, to skirmish for a long time and exhaust the ammu- 
nition of the insurgents, if they commit the error of returning 



444 


LES MISERABLES 


the file. When it is discovered by the slackening of their fire 
that they had no powder or ball left, the assault is made. Enjol- 
ras had not fallen into this trap, and the barricade did not re- 
ply. At each platoon fire, Gavroche thrust his ^ngue into 
his cheek, a sign of supreme disdain. 

** That’s good,” he said, “ tear up the linen, for we require 
lint.” 

Courfeyrac addressed the grape-shot on its want of efiect, 
and said to the cannon, — 

** You are becoming diffuse, my good fellow.’* 

In battle intrigues take place as at a ball; and it is pro- 
bable that the silence of the redoubt was beginning to render 
the assailants anxious, and make them fear lest some unexpect- 
ed incident had occurred. The insurgents suddenly perceived 
a helmet glistening in the sun upon an adjoining roof; a 
sapper was leaning against a tall chimney-pot, and apparently a 
sentry there. Ho looked down into the barricade. 

“That’s a troublesome spy,” said Enjolras. 

Jean Valjean, who had his musket in his hand, had also 
observed him. Without saying a word he aimed at the sapper, 
and a second later the helmet, struck by a bullet, fell noisily 
into the street. The soldier disappeared with all possible haste. 
A second watchman took his place, and it was an officer. Jean 
Valjean, who had reloaded his musket, aimed at the new-comer, 
and sent the officer’s helmet to join the private’s. The officer 
was not obstinate, but withdrew very quickly. This time the 
hint was understood, and no one again appeared on the roof. 

“ Why did you not kill the man ? ” Bossuet asked Jean 
Valjean, who, however, made no reply. 

A second piece of artillery now came on the stage.' The 
gunners rapidly got it into position by the side of the first one, 
and this was the beginning of the end. A few minutes later 
both guns, being actively served, were at work against the bar- 
ricade, and the platoon fire of the line and the suburban Na- 
tional Guards supported the artillery. Another cannonade 
was audible some distance off. At the same time as the two 
guns were furiously assaulting the redoubt in the Sue de la 
Chanvrerie, two other pieces placed in a position, one in the Sue 
St . Denis, the other in ^e Sue Aubrey-le-Boucher, were pounding 
the St. Merry barricade. The four guns formed a lugubrious echo 
to each other, and the barks of the grim dogs of war responded 



LES MISEBABLES 


449 


to each other. Of the two guns now opened on the barricade 
of the Rue de la Chanvrerie, one fired shell, the other solid shot. 

“The annoyance of these guns must be reduced,” said 
Enjolras, and he shouted, “Fire at the artillerymen.” 

All wer^ ready, — the barricade, which had so long been 
silent, was belted with flame ; seven or eight rounds succeeded 
each other with a sort of rage and joy ; the street was filled 
with a blinding smoke, and at the expiration of a few minutes 
there might bo confusedly seen through the mist, all striped 
with flame, two-thirds of the artillerymen lying under the gun- 
wheels. Those who remained standing continued to serve the 
guns with a stern tranquillity, but the fire was reduced. 

“ Things are going well,” said Bossuet to Enjolras, “ that 
is a success.” 

Enjolras shook his head and replied, — 

“ Another quarter of an hour of that success, and there will 
not be a dozen cartridges left in the barricade.” 

It appears that Gavrocho heard the remark, for Courfeyrac 
all at once perceived somebody in the street, at the foot of the 
barricade, amid the shower of bullets. Gavroche had fetched 
a hamper from the pot-house, passed through a gap, and was 
quickly engaged in emptying into it the full cartouche-boxes 
of the National Guards killed on the slope of the barricade. 

The troops aimed at him incessantly, and constantly missed 
him, and the National Guards and the soldiers laughed, while 
covering him. Ho lay down, then rose again, hid himself in a 
door-way, then bounded, disappeared, reappeared, ran ofi, came 
back, replied to the grape-shot by taking a sight, and all the 
while plundered cartridges, emptied boxes, and filled his ham- 
per. The insurgents watched him, 'as they panted with anxiety, 
but w£ile the barricade trembled he sang. He was not a child, 
he was not a man, he was a strange goblin gamin, and he re- 
sembled the invulnerable dwarf of the combat. The bullets 
ran after him, but ho was more active than they ; he played a 
frightful game of hide and seek with death. One bullet, how- 
ever, better aimed or more treacherous than the rest, at length 
struck the Will-o’-the-wisp lad ; Gavroche was seen to totter 
and then to sink. The whole barricade uttered a cry, but 
there was an Antous in this pigmy : for a gamin to touch the 
pavement is like the giant touching the earth ; and Gavroche 
had only fallen to rise again. He remained in a sitting pos- 



446 


LES MISEBABLES 


ture, a long jet of blood ran down his face, he raised both arms 
in the air, looked in the direction whence the shot had 
come, and began singing, — 

Je Buis tombs par terre, 

C’est la faute k Voltaire: 

Le nez dans le misseau, 

C’est la faute k 

He did not finish, for a second shot from the same marksman 
stopped him short. This time he lay with his face on the pave- 
ment, and did not stir again. This little great soul had fled 
away. 

Marius rushed out of the barricade, and Combeferre fol- 
lowed him ; but it was too late, and Gavroche was dead. Com- 
befeire brought in the hamper of cartridges, and Marius the 
boy. Alas ! he thought he was requiting the son for what the 
father had done for his father ; but Th6nardier had brought in 
his father alive, while he brought in the lad dead. Combeferre 
distributed the cartridges which he had brought in, and they 
gave each man fifteen rounds to fire. Jean Valjean meanwhile 
was sitting motionless on a bench. When Combeferre offered 
him his fifteen cartridges he shook his head. 

“ That is a strange eccentric," Combeferre said in a whisper 
to Enjolras. Ho manages not to fight inside this barricade." 

" Which does not prevent him from defending it," Enjolras 
answered. 

Suddenly, between two discharges, the distant sound of a 
clock striking was heard. 

“ It is midday," said Combeferre. 

The twelve strokes had not died out ere Enjolras drew 
himself up to his full height, and hurled the loud cry from the 
top of the barricade, — 

“ Take up paving-stones into the house, and line the win- 
dows with them. One half of you to the stones, the other 
half to the muskets. There is not a moment to lose." ^ 

A party of sappers, with thdr axes on their shoulders, had 
just appeared in battle-array at the end of the street. This 
could only be the head of a column : and of what column 1 
Evidently the column of attack ; for the sappers ordered to 
demolish the barricade always precede the troops told off to 
escalade it. It was plain that the moment was at hand which 
M. Clermont Tonnerre caUed in 1822 the last attempt." 



LES MISERABLES 


447 


Enjolras's order was carried out with that correct speed 
peculiar to ships and barricades, the only two battle-fields 
whence escape is impossible. In less than a minute two-thirds 
of a heap of paving-stones which Enjolras had ordered to be piled 
up against Ae door of Corinth were carried to the first floor and 
attic, and before a second minute had passed these paving- 
stones, artistically laid on one another, walled up one half of 
the window. A few spaces carefully arranged by Eeuilly, the 
chief constructor, allowed the gun barrels to pass through. 
This armament of the wndows was the more easily eflected 
because the grape-shot had ceased. The two cannon were now 
firing solid shot at*the centre of the barricade, in order to make 
a hole, and if possible a breach, for the assault. 

Then the ground-floor window was also barricaded, and the 
iron bars which closed the door at night were held in readiness. 
The fortress was complete, the barricade was the rampart, and 
the wineshop the keep. With the paving-stones left over the gap 
was stopped up. The preparations for the attack are always 
made with a certain methodical slowness, and after that comes 
the thunder. This slowness enabled Enjolras to revise and render 
everything perfect. He felt that since such men were about to 
die, their death must be a masterpiece. He said to Marius, — 
“ We are the two chiefs. I am going to give the final 
orders inside, while you remain outside and watch.” 

Marius posted himself in observation on the crest of the 
barricade, while Enjolras had the door of the kitchen, which it 
will be remembered served as an ambulance, nailed up. 

“ No spattering on the wounded,” ho said. 

He gave his final instructions in the ground-floor room in a 
sharp but wonderfully calm voice* and Feuilly listened and 
answered in the name of all. 

“ Have axes ready on the first floor to cut down the stairs* 
Have you them ? ” 

“ Yes,” Feuilly answered. 

^ “ How many ? ” 

Two axes and a crowbar.'^ 

Very good. In all twenty-six fighting men left. How 
many guns are there ! ” 

“ Thirty-four.” 

“ Eight too many. Keep those guns loaded like the others^ 
and within reach. Place your sabres and pistols in your 



448 


LES MISERABLES 


belts. Twenty men to the barricade. Six will ambush them- 
selves in the garret and at the first-floor window, to fire on 
the assailants through the loop-holes in the paving-stones. 
There must not be an idle workman here. Presently, when the 
drummer sounds the charge, the twenty men below ^illrush to 
the barricade, and the first to arrive will be the best placed.” 

These arrangements made, he turned to Javert, and said to 
him, “ I have not forgotten you.” 

And laying a pistol on the table he added, — 

” The last man to leave here will blo.^v out this spy's brains.” 

“ Here ? ” a voice answered. 

” No, let us not have this corpse near ours. It is easy to 
stride over the small barricade in Mondetour Lane, as it is only 
four feet high. This man is securely bound, so lead him there 
and execute him.” 

Some one was at this moment even more stoical than 
Enjolras, — ^it was Javert. Here Jean Valjcan appeared ; he 
was mixed up with the group of insurgents, but stepped for- 
ward and said to Enjolras, 

“ Are you the Commandant 1 ” 

“ Yes.” 

“ You thanked me just now. Do you think that 1 deserve 
a reward ? ” 

” Certainly.” 

“ Well, then, I ask one.” 

" What is it ? ” 

“ To let me blow out that man's brains myself.” 

Javert raised his head, saw Jean Valjean, gave an imper- 
ceptible start, and said, — It is fair.” 

As for Enjolras, he wai reloading his gun. He looked 
around him. 

” Is there no objection 1 ” 

And he turned to Jean Valjean. 

” Take the spy.” 

Jean Valjean took possession of Javert by seating himself 
on the end of the table. He seized the pistol, and a faint 
clink showed that he had cocked it. Almost at the same mo- 
ment the bugle-call was heard. 

The insurgents rushed tumultuously forth, and aia they 
passed, Javert smote them on the back, so to speak, with the 
expression, We shall meet again soon.”’ 



LES MISERABLES 


449 


So soon as Jean Valjean was alone with Javert, he undid the 
rope which fastened the prisoner round the waist, the knot of 
which was under the table. After this, he made him a signal 
to rise. Javert obeyed with that indefinable smile, in which 
the supremacy of enchained authority is condensed. Jean 
Vaejean seized Javert by the martingale, as he would have taken 
an ox by its halter, and dragging him after him, quitted the wine- 
shop slowly, for J avert, having his feet hobbled, could only take 
very short steps. Jean Valjcan held the pistol in his hand, and 
they thus crossed the ijner trapeze of the barricade ; the in- 
surgents, prepared for the imminent attack, turned their backa 

Marius alone, ‘placed at the left extremity of the barricade, 
saw them pass. This group of the victim and his hangman 
was illumined by the sepulchral gleams which ho had in his 
soul. Jean Valjcan forced Javert to climb over the barricade 
with some difficulty ^Jaut did not loosen the cord. When they 
had crossed the bar, they found themselves alone in the lane, 
and no one could now see them, for the elbow formed by the 
houses hid them from the insurgents. The corpses removed 
from the barricade formed a horrible pile a few paces from them. 
Among the dead could be distinguished a livid face, dishevelled 
hair, a pierced hand, and a half-naked female bosom ; it was 
Eponine. Javert looked askance at this dead girl, and said with 
profound calmness, — 

I fancy I know that girl." 

Then he turned to Jean Valjean, who placed the pistol 
under his arm, and fixed on Javert a glance which had no need 
of words to say, “ Javert, it is I.” 

Javert answered,** Take your revenge.'' 

Jean Valjean took a knife from his pocket and opened it. 

** A clasp-knife," Javert exclaimed. ** You are right, that 
suits you better." 

Jean Valjean cut the martingale which Javert had round his 
neck, then he cut the ropes on his wrists, and stooping down, 
those on his feet ; then rising again, he said, ** You are free." 

It was not easy to astonish Javert, still, master though he 
was of himself, he could not suppress his emotion ; he stood 
gaping and motionless, while Jean Valjean continued,— 

do not believe that I shall leave this place. Still if by 
accident I do, I live under the name of Fauchelevent, at No. 7 
Rue de THomme ArmA'^ 



450 


LES MISEBABLES 


Javert gave a tigerish frown, which opened a corner of hia 
mouth, and muttered between his teeth, — 

“ Take care/' 

“ Begone,'^ said Jean Valjean. 

Javert added, v 

“ You said Fauchelevent, Rue de THomme Arme ? '' 

“ No. 7/' 

Javert repeated in a low voice, — No. 7." 

He rebuttoned his frock-coat, restored hys military stiffness 
between his shoulders, made a half -turn, crossed his arms while 
supporting his chin with one of his hands, and walked off in 
the direction of the Halles. Jean V'aljean Iboked after him. 
After going a few yards Javert turned and said, — 

“ You annoy me. I would sooner be killed by you.*' 

Javert did not even notice that he no longer addressed 
Jean Valjean in the second person singular. 

“ Begone," said Valjean. 

Javert retired slowly, and a moment after turned the corner 
of the Rue des Precheurs. When Javert had disappeared, 
Jean Valjean discharged the pistol in the air, and then returned 
to the barricade, saying, — 

“ It is all over." 

This is what had taken place in the meanwhile. Marius, 
more occupied with the outside than the inside, had not hitherto 
attentively regarded the spy fastened up at the darkened end 
of the ground-floor room. When he saw him in the open 
day-light bestriding the barricade, he recognized him, and a 
sudden hope enter^ his mind. He rememWed the inspector 
of the Rue de Fontoise, and the two pistols he had given him, 
which he, Marius, had employed at this very barricade, and he 
not only remembered his face but his name. 

This recollection, however, was foggy and disturbed, like all 
hia ideas. It was not an affirmation he made so much as a ques- 
tion which he asked himself. “ Is that not the Police Inspector, 
who told me that his name was Javert ? " Marius shouted to 
Enjolras, who had just stationed himself at the other end of 
the barricade, — 

" Enjolras ? " 

« Well? " 

“ What is that man's name ! 

“ Which man ? 



461 


LES MISEBABLES 

&lt;1 police agent. Do you know hie name I 
Of course I do, for he told it to U8.'&lt; 

What is it ? " 

“ Javert." 

Mmus atarted, but at this moment a pistol-shot was heard 
and Jean Valjean reappeared, saying, “ It is all over.” A dark 
chill crossed Marius's heart. 

Suddenly the drum beat the charge, and the attack was a 
hurricane. A powerful column of line infantry, intersected at 
regular intervals by l^tional Guards and dismounted Muni 
cipal Guards, and supported by heavy masses, that could be 
heard if not seen, debouched into the street at the double, 
with drums beating, bugles braying, bayonets levelled, and 
sappers in front, and imperturbable under the shower of pro- 
jectiles dashed straight at the barricade with all the weight of 
a bronze battering-ram. But the wall held out firmly, and 
tbs insurgents fired impetuously ; the escaladed barricade dis- 
played a flashing mane. The attack was so violent that it 
was in a moment inundated by assailants ; but it shook off the 
soldiers as the lion does the dogs, and it was only covered with 
besiegers as the cliff is with foam, to reappear a minute later 
scarped, black, and formidable. 

The assaults succeeded each other, and the horror became 
constantly greater. These sallow, ragged, and exhausted men, 
who had not eaten for four-and-twenty hours, who had not 
slept, who had only a few rounds more to fire, who felt their 
empty pockets for cartridges — these men nearly all wounded, 
with head or arm bound round with a blood-stained blackish 
rag, having holes in their coat from which the blood flew, scarce 
armed with bad guns and old fusty sabres, became Titans. 
The barricade was ten times approached, assaulted, escaladed, 
and never captured. They fought foot to foot* body to body, 
with pistol-shots, sabre-cuts, and fists, close by, at a distance, 
above, below, on all sides, from the roof of the house, from the 
wine-shop, and even from the traps of the cellars into which 
some had slipped. The odds were sixty to one, and the 
frontage of Corinth half demolished was hideous. The window, 
pock-marked with grape-shot, had lost glass and frame, and 
wa^'only a shapeless hole, tumultuously stopped up with pav- 
ing-stones. Bossuet was killed, Feiiilly was killed, Couifeyrac 
was killed, Joly was killed. Combeferre, traversed by three 



452 


LES MISERABLES 


bayonet stabs in the breast at the moment when he was raising 
a wounded soldier, had only time to look up to heaven, and 
expired. Marius, still fighting, had received so many wounds, 
especially in the head, that his face disappeared in blood and 
looked as if it were covered by a red handkerchief. ^ Enjolras 
alone was not wounded ; when he had no weapon he held out 
his arm to right or left, and an insurgent placed some instru- 
ment in his hand. 

When there were no chiefs left but Enjohras and Marius at 
the two ends of the barricade, the centre, which had so long 
been supported by Courfeyrac, Bossuet, Jolj, Feuilly, and 
Combeferre, yielded. A final assault was attempted, and this 
assault was successful ; the bristling mass of bayonets, hurled 
forward at a run, came up irresistibly, and the dense line of the 
attacking column appeared in the smoke on the top of the 
scarp. This time it was all over, and the band of insurgents 
defending the centre recoiled pell-mell. 

Then the gloomy love of life was rekindled in some ; cover- 
ed by this forest of muskets, several did not wish to die. They 
were drawn up against the six-storeyed house at the back of 
the barricade, and this hotise might be their salvation. This 
house was barricaded, as it were walled up from top to bottom, 
but before the troops reached the interior of the redoubt, a 
door would have time to open and shut, and it would be life 
for these desperate men, for at the back of this house were 
streets, possible flight, and space. They began kicking and 
knocking at the door, while calling, crying, imploring, and 
clasping their hands. But no one opened. Enjolras shouted 
to the soldiers, Do not advance, and as an officer declined to 
obey he killed the officer. He was in the inner yard of the 
redoubt, close to Corinth, with his sword in one hand and car- 
bine in the other, holding open the door of the wine-shop, 
which he barred against the assailants. He shouted to the 
desperate men, ** There is only one door open, and it is this 
one,'' and covering them with his person, and alone facing a 
battalion, he made them pass behind him. All rushed in, and 
Enjolras, whirling his musket round his head, drove back the 
bayonets and entered the last, and there was a frightful mom- 
ent, during which the troops tried to enter, and the insur- 
gents to bar the door. The latter was closed with such vio- 
lence that the five fingers of a soldier who had caught hold 



LES MISEBABLES 463 

of the door-post were cut off clean, and remained in the crevice. 
Manus remained outside ; a bullet broke his collar-bone, and 
he felt himself fainting and falling. At this moment, when 
his eyes were already closed, he felt the shock of a powerful 
hand seizing him, and his fainting-fit scarce left him time for 
this thought, blended with the supreme recollection of Cos- 
ette, “ I am made prisoner and shall be shot."' 

Enjobas, not seeing Marius among those who had sought 
shelter in the house, had the same idea, but they had reached 
that moment when ejich could only think of his own death. 
Enjolras put the bar on the door, bolted and locked it, while 
the soldiers beat it with musket-butts, and the sappers attacked 
it with their axes outside. The assailants were grouped round 
this door, and the siege of the wine-shop now began. 

The barricade had resisted like a gate of Thebes, and the 
wine-shop resisted like a house of Saragossa. Nothing was 
wanting in the attack on it, neither paving-stones showering 
from the window and roof on the assailants, and exasperating 
the troops by the frightful damage they committed, nor shots 
from the attics and cellar, nor the fury of the attack, nor the 
rage of the defence, nor, ^ally, when the door gave way, the 
frenzied mania of extermination. When the assailants rushed 
into the wine-shop, their feet entangled in the panels of the 
broken door which lay on the ground, they did not find a single 
combatant. The winding staircase, cut away with axes, lay in 
the middle of the ground-floor room, a few wounded men were 
on the point of dying, all who were not killed were on the first- 
floor, and a terrific 6ie was discharged thence through the hole 
in the ceiling which had been the entrance to the restaurant. 
These were the last cartridges, lind when they were expended 
and* nobody had any powder or balls left, each man took up two 
of the bottles reserved by Enjolras, and defended the stairs with 
these frightfully fragile weapons. They were bottles of aqua- 
fortis. We describe the gloomy things of carnage exactly as 
they are ; the besieged makes a weapon of everything. Greek 
fire did not dishonour Archimedes, boiling pitch did not 
honour Bayard ; every war is a horror, and there is no choice. 
The musketry fire of the assailants, though impeded and dis- 
charged from below, was murderous ; and the brink of the hole 
Was soon lined with dead heads, whence dripped long red and 
steaming jets. The noise was indescribable, and a compressed 



m 


LES MISERABLES 


burning smoke almost threw night over the combat. Words 
fail to describe horror when it has reached this stage. There 
were no men in this now infernal struggle, they were no longer 
giants contending against Titans. It resembled Milton and 
Dante more than Homer, for demons attacked and spectres 
resisted. It was a monster heroism. 

At length, by emplopng the skeleton of the staircase, by 
climbing up the walls, clinging to the ceiling, and killing on 
the very edge of the trap the last who resisted, some twenty 
assailants, soldiers, National and Municipal Guards, mostly 
disfigured by wounds in the face received in this formidable 
ascent, blinded by blood, furious and savage, burst into the 
first-floor room. There was only one man standing there — 
Enjolras ; without cartridges or sword, he only held in his hand 
the barrel of his carbine, whose butt he had broken on the 
heads of those who entered. He had placed the billiard-table 
between himself and his assailants, he had fallen back to the 
end of the room, and there, with flashing eye and head erect, 
holding the piece of a weapon in his hand, he was still suffi- 
ciently alarming for a space to be formed round him. A cry 
was raised, — It is the chief ; it was he who killed the artil- 
leryman; as he has placed himself there, we will let him 
remain there. Shoot him on the spot.'* 

“ Shoot me," Enjolras said. 

And, throwing away his weapon and folding his arms, ha 
offered his chest. Then a serjeant shouted, " Present." 

An officer interposed. 

" Wait a minute." 

And addressing Enjolras, — 

" Do you wish to have ydUr eyes bandaged ? ” 

‘‘ No." 

" It was really you who killed the sergeant of artillery t ** 

“ Yes." 

The detonation took place. Enjolras, traversed by eight 
ballets, remained leaning against the wall, as if nailed to it ; he 
merely hung his head. A few minutes later the soldiers dis- 
lodged the last insurgents who had taken refuge at the top of 
the house, and were firing through a partition in the garret* 
They fought desperately, and threw bodies out of windows, 
some still alive. There was a similar struggle in the cellar ; 
cries, shots, and a fierce clashing ; then silence. The barri- 



LES MISERABLES 


m 


cade was captured, and the soldiers began searching the adja- 
cent houses and pursuing the fugitives. 

CHAPTER XXIII 

Marius was really a prisoner, prisoner to Jean Valjean. 

Jean Valjean had taken no other part in the struggle than 
that of exposing himself. He did not appear to see Marius in 
the thick of the oombat, but in truth he did not take his eyes 
off him. When a bullet laid Marius low Jean Valjean leaped 
upon him with the agility of a tiger, dashed upon him as on a 
prey, and carried him off. 

The whirlwind of the attack was at this moment so violently 
concentrated on Enjolras and the door of the wine-shop that 
no one saw Jean Valjean, supporting the fainting Marius in 
his arms, cross the unpaved ground of the barricade, and dis- 
appear round the corner of Corinth. Here Jean Valjean stop- 
ped, let Marius slip to the ground, leant against a wall, and 
looked around him. 

The situation was frightful; for the instant, for two or 
three minutes perhaps, this piece of wall was a shelter, but how 
to get out of this massacre ? He had in front of him that im- 
placable and silent six-storeyed house, which only seemed in- 
habited by the dead man leaning out of his window ; he had 
on his right the low barricade which closed the Petite Truan- 
dcrie ; to climb over this obstacle appeared easy, but a row of 
bayonet-points could be seen over the crest of the barricade. 
It was evident that crossing the barricade was seeking a pla- 
toon fire, and that any head which appeared above the waU of 
pavijig-stones would serve as a mark for sixty muskets. 

What was he to do ? A bird alone could have escaped from 
this place. And ho must decide at once, find an expedient, and 
make up his mind. Jean Valjean looked at the house opposite 
to him, he looked at the barricade by his aide, and then looked 
on the ground, with the violence of supreme extremity, wildly, 
and as if he would have liked to dig a hole with his eyes. By 
force of looking, something vaguely discernible in such an ago- 
ny was designed and assumed a shape at his feet, as if the eyes 
had the power to produce the thing demanded. He perceived 
a few paces from him, at the foot of the small barricade so 
pitilessly guarded and watched from without, and beneath 



456 


LBS MI^ERABLES 

a pile of paving-stones whioh almost concealed it, an iron grat- 
ing, laid flat and flush with the ground. This grating, made of 
strong cross-bars, was about two feet square, and the frame- 
work of paving-stones which supported it had been torn out, 
and it was as it were dismounted. Through the barsr a glimpse 
could be caught of au obscure opening, something like a chim- 
ney-pot or the cylinder of cistern. Jean Valjean dashed up, 
and his old skill in escapes rose to his brain like a beam of light. 
To remove the paving-stones, tear up the gra4:ing, take Marius, 
who was inert as a dead body, on his shoulders, descend with 
this burden on his loins, helping himself with his elbows and 
knees, into this sort of well which was fortunately of no great 
depth, to let the grating fall again over his head, to set foot on 
a paved surface, about ten feet below the earth, all this was 
executed like something done in delirium, with a giant's strength 
and the rapidity of an eagle : this occupied but a few minutes. 
Jean Valjean found himself with the still fainting Marius in a 
sort of long subterranean corridor, where there was profound 
peace, absolute silence, and night. 

If we imagine Paris removed like a cover, the subterranean 
net-work of drains regarded from a bird's-eye view, would re- 
present on either bank a sort of large branch grafted upon 
the river. On the right bank the encircling sewer will be the 
trunk of this branch, the secondary tubes the branches, and 
the blind alleys the twigs. This figure is only summary and 
half correct, as the right angle, which is the usual angle in sub- 
terranean ramifications of this nature, is very rare in vegeta- 
tion. Our readers will form a better likeness of this strange geo- 
metric plan by supposing that they see lying on a bed or dark- 
ness some strange Oriental al]^habet as confused as a thicket, 
and whose shapeless letters are welded to each other in an 
apparent confusion, and as if accidentally, here by their angles 
and there by their ends. 

It was in the sewer of Paris that Jean Valjean found him- 
self. He stood for some minutes as if stunned, listening and 
amazed. The trap-door of safety had suddenly opened be- 
neath him, and the heavenly kindness had to some extent 
snared him, by treachery. StUl the wounded man did not stir, 
and Jean Valjean did not know whether what he was car- 
rying in this fosse were alive or dead. 

His first sensation was blindness, for he aU at once could see 



LES MISEBABLES 467 

nothing. He felt too that in a moment he had become deaf, for 
he could hear nothing more. He felt that he had something 
solid under his feet, but that was all ; still it was sufficient. He 
stretched out one arm, then the other ; he touched the wall on 
both sidei^, and understood that the passage was narrow ; his 
foot slipped, and he understood that the pavement was damp. 
He advanced one foot cautiously, fearing a hole, a cesspool, or 
some gulf, and satisfied himself that the pavement went on- 
wards. A fetid gust warned him of the spot where he was- 
At the expiration of few minutes he was no longer blind, a 
little light fell through the trap by which he had descended, and 
his eye grew used to this cellar. He began to distinguish 
something. The passage in which he had run to earth was 
walled up behind him ; it was one of those blind alleys called.in 
the special language branches. Before him he had another 
wall, a wall of night. The light of the trap expired ten or 
twelve feet from the spot where Jean Valjean was, and scarce 
produced a livid whiteness on a few yards of the damp wall of 
the sewer. Jean Valjean thought that the grating which he 
had noticed in the street might also be noticed by the troops, 
and that all depended on chance. They might also come down 
into the well and search, so he had not a minute to lose. He 
resolutely entered the darkness. 

When he had gone fifty yards he was obliged to stop, for 
a question occurred to him; the passage ran into another, 
which it intersected, and two roads offered themselves. Which 
should he take ? ought he to turn to the left or right ? how 
was he to find his way in this black labyrinth ? This laby- 
rinth, he thought, must have a clue in its slope, and following 
the •slope must lead to the river. Jean Valjean understood 
this immediately ; he said to himself that he was probably in 
the sewer of the Halles, that if he turned to the left and follow- 
ed the incline he would arrive in a quarter of an hour at some 
opening on the Seine between the Pont au Change and the Pont 
Neuf, that is to say, appear in broad daylight in the busiest 
part of Paris. Perhaps he might come out at some street 
opening, and passers-by would be stupefied at seeing two blood- 
stained men emerge from the ground at their feet. The police 
would come up, and they would be carried off to the nearest 
guard-room ; they would be prisoners before they had come 
out. It would be better, therefore, to bury himself in the laby- 



458 


LES MISERABLES 


rinth, confide in the darkness, and leave the issue to Providence. 

To direct himself was difficult, for the sewers represent, so to 
speak, the outline of the streets standing over them. There 
were in the Paris of that day two thousand two hundred streets, 
and imagine beneath them that forest of dark branches called 
the sewer. The system of drains existing at that day, if placed 
end on end, would hasre given a length of eleven leagues. He 
advanced anxiously , but calmly, seeing nothing, hearing nothing, 
plunged into chance, that is to say, swallowed-up in Providence. 
By degrees, however, wo are bound te state that a certain 
amount of horror beset him, and the shadow which enveloped 
him entered his mind. Jean Valjean was obliged to find, and 
almost invent, his road without seeing it. In this unknown 
region each step that he ventured might be his last. How was 
he to get out of it t could he pierce and penetrate this colossal 
subterranean sponge with its passages of stone ? would he meet 
there some unexpected knot of darkness ? would Marius die of 
hemorrhage, and himself of hunger ? would they both end by 
being lost there, and form two skeletons in a corner of this 
night ? He did not know ; he asked himself all this, and could 
not find an answer. 

He suddenly had a surprise ; at the most unexpected mo- 
ment, and without ceasing to walk in a straight line, he per- 
ceived that he was no longer ascending ; the water of the gut- 
ter plashed against his heels instead of coming to his toes. 
The sewer was now descending ; why ? was he about to reach the 
Seine suddenly ? That danger was great, but the peril of turn- 
ing back was greater still, and he continued to advance. 

He had been walking about half an hour, at least that was 
the calculation he made, and had not thought of resting ; he 
had merely changed the hand which held Marius up. The dark- 
ness was more profound than ever, but this darkness reassured 
him. All at once he saw his shadow before him ; it stood out 
upon a faint and almost indistinct redness, which vaguely im- 
purpled the roadway at his feet and the vault above his head, 
and glided along the greasy walls of the passage. He turned 
his head in stupefaction, and saw behind him at a distance, 
which appeared immense, a sort of horrible star glistening, 
which seemed to be looking at him. It was the gloomy police 
star rising in the sewer. Behind this star there moved con- 
fusedly nine or ten black, upright, indistinct, and terrible forms. 



LES MISEBABLES 


459 


Tlie meaning was as follows : on the day of June 6th a 
battue of the sewers was ordered, for it was feared lest the con- 
quered should fly to them as a refuge, and Prefect Gisquet 
ordered occult Paris to be searched, while General Bugeaud 
swept public Paris. Three squads of agents and sewer-men 
explored the subway of Paris, the first the right bank, the 
second the left bank, and the third the Cit4. The agents were 
armed with carbines, bludgeons, swords, and daggers, and what 
was at this moment pointed at Jean Valjean was the lantern 
of the round of the right bank. While the police were carry- 
ing their light about there, Jean Valjean in his progress came 
to the entrance of the gallery, found it narrower than the 
main gallery, and had not entered it. The police, on com- 
ing out of the Cadran gallery, fancied that they could hear 
the sound of footsteps in the direction of the outer drain, and 
they were really Jean Valjean's footsteps. The head serjeant 
of the round raised his lantern, and the squad began peering 
into the mist in the direction whence the noise had come. 

It was an indescribable moment for Jean Valjean ; luckily, 
if he sawfthe lantern well, the lantern saw him badly, for it was 
the light and he was the darkness. He was too far off, and 
bhmded with the blackness of the spot, so he drew himself up 
against the wall and stopped. When J ean V alj ean stopped the 
noise ceased ; the police listened and heard nothing, they looked 
and saw nothing, and hence consulted together. There was at 
that period at that point in theMontmartre drain a sort of square 
called de semce, which has since been suppressed, owing to the 
small •internal lake which the torrents of rain formed there, 
and the squad assembled on this square. Jean Valjean saw them 
make a sort of circle, and then bull-dog heads came together 
and whispered. The result of this council held by the watch- 
dogs was that they were mistaken, that there had been no noise, 
that there was nobody there, that it was useless to enter the 
surrounding sewer, that it would be time wasted, but that they 
must hasten to the St. Merry drain, for if there were anything 
to be done, and any “ boussingot ” to track, it would be theraL 

Before starting, the serjeant, to satisfy his police con^ 
science, discharged his carbine in the direction where Jean 
^Yaljean was. The detonation rolled echoing along the crypt, 
like the rumbling of these Titanic bowels. Apiece of plaster 
which feU into the gutter and plashed up the water a few yards 



460 


LES MISEBABLES 


from Jean Valjean warned him that the bullet had struck the 
vault above hLs head. Measured and slow steps echoed for 
some time along the wooden causeway, growing more and more 
deadened by the growing distance ; the group of black forms 
disappeared ; a Ught oscillated and floated, formihg on the 
vault a ruddy circle, which decreased and ^sappeared ; the 
silence again became profound, the obscurity again became com- 
plete, blindness and deafness again took possession of the gloom, 
and Jean Valjean, not daring yet to stir, rei&amp;ained leaning for 
a long time against the wall, with outstletched ear and dilated 
eyeballs, watching the evanishment of the patrol of phan- 
toms. 

Jean Valjean then resumed his march, and did not stop 
again. The intermittent flashes of the street gratings only 
appeared at lengthened intervals, and were so faint that the 
bright sunshine seemed to be moonlight ; all the rest was fog, 
miasma, opaqueness, and blackness. Jean Valjean was hun- 
gry and thirsty, the lattermost, and it was like the sea, there was 
water, water everywhere, but not a drop to drink. His strength, 
which, as we know, was prodigious, and but slightly diminished by 
age, owing to his chaste and sober life, was, however, beginning 
to give way ; fatigue assailed him, and his decreasing strength in- 
creased the weight of his burden. Marius, who was perhaps dead, 
was heavy, like all inert bodies, but Jean Valjean held him 
so that his chest was not afiected, and he could breathe with 
pressure. He felt between his legs the rapid gliding of rats, 
and one was so startled as to bite him. From time to time a 
gush of fresh air came through the gratings, which revived him. 

It might be about three p. .m. when he reached the extornal 
sewer, and was at first amazed at the sudden widening. He 
unexpectedly found himself in a gallery whose two w^s hia 
outstretched arms did not reach, and under an arch which hia 
head did not touch. The grand sewer, in fact, is eight feet in 
width by seven high. At the point where the Montmartre 
drain joins the grand sewer two other subterranean galleries, 
that of the Rue de Provence and that of the Abattoir, form 
cross roads. Between these four ways a less sagacious man 
would have been undecided, but Jean Valjean selected the 
widest, that is to say, the encircling sewer. But here the qu^- 
tion came back again, — Should he ascend or descend ? He 
thought that the situation was pressing, and that he must at 



LES MISERABLES 461 

all risks now reach the Seine, in other words, descend, so ha 
turned to the left. 

His instinct served him well ; going down, in fact, was the 
only salvation possible. A little beyond an affluent, which was 
probably%tho Madeleine branch, he stopped, for he was very 
weary. A large grating, probably the one in the Rue d’ Anjou, 
produced an almost bright light. Jean Valjean, with the gentle 
movements which a brother would bestow on a wounded brother, 
laid Marius on the banquette of the drain, and his white face 
gleamed under the white light of the trap as from the bottom 
of a tomb. Hjs eyes were closed, his hair was attached to his 
forehead like pincers dried in blood, his hands were hanging 
and dead, his limbs cold, and blood was clotted at the corner 
of his lips. Coagulated blood had collected in his cravat 
knot, his shirt entered the wounds, and the cloth of his coat 
rubbed the gaping edges of the quivering flesh. Jean Valjean 
removing the clothes with the tips of his fingers, laid his hand 
on his chest, — the heart still beat. Jean Valjean tore up his 
shirt, bandaged the wounds as well as he could, and stopped 
the blood that was flowing ; then, stooping down in this half 
daylight over Marius, who was still unconscious and almost 
breatUess, he looked at him with indescribable hatred. In 
moving Marius’s clothes he found in his pockets two things, 
the loaf, which ho had forgotten the previous evening, and 
his pocket-book. He ate the bread and opened the pocket- 
book. On the first page he read the lines written by Marius, 
as will be remembered : My name is Marius Pont mercy, 
carry, my body to my grandfather’s, M. Gillenormand, No. 
6, Rue des Filles du Calvaire, in the Marais.” 

Jean Valjean read by the light of the grating these lines, 
and remained for a time as it were absorbed in himself, and 
repeating in a low voice, M. Gillenormand, No. 6, Rue des 
Filles du Calvaire. He returned the portfolio to Marius’s 
pocket ; he had eaten, and his strength had come back to him. 
He raised Marius again, carefully laid his head on his right 
ahoulder, and began descending the sewer. Nothing informed 
him what zone of the city he was traversing, nor what distance 
he had gone, still the growing paleness of the flakes of light 
which he met from time to time indicated to him that the sun 
'^as retiring from the pavement, and that day would be soon 
ended ; and the rolling of vehicles over his head, which had 



462 


LES MISERABLES 


become intermittent instead of continuous, and then almost 
ceased, proved to him that he was no longer under central 
Paris, and was approaching some solitary region, near the 
external boulevard or most distant quays, where there are 
fewer houses and streets, and the drain has few gratkigs. The 
obscurity thickened around Joan Valjean ; still he continued 
to advance, groping his way in the shadow. 

This shadow suddenly became terrible. 

He felt that he was entering water, and that he had under 
his feet no longer stone but mud. 

Before the important works begun in 1833, ,the sub-way of 
Paris was subject to sudden breakings-in. The water filtered 
through a subjacent and peculiarly friable soil ; and the road- 
way, if made of paving-stones, as in the old drains, or of con- 
crete upon beton, as in the new galleries, having no support, bent. 
A bend in a planking of this nature is a crevice, and a crevice is a 
bursting in. The roadway broke away for a certain length, and 
such a gap, a gulf of mud, was called in the special language 
foniis. What is a fontis. It is the quick sand of the sea- 
shore suddenly met with under-ground ; it is the quicksand of 
St. Michel in a sewer. The moistened soil is in a state of fusion, 
all its particles are held in suspense in a shifting medium ; it is 
not land, and it is not water. The depth is at times very great. 
Nothing can be more formidable than meeting with such a thing ; 
if water predominate, death is quick, for a man is drowned, 
if earth predominate, death is slow, for he is sucked down. 

Can our readers imagine such a death ? If it be frightful to 
sink in a quicksand on the sea-shore, what is it in a cloaca ? ' 
Slow asphyxia by uncleanlinesg, a sarcophagus where asphyxia 
opens its claws in the filth, and clutches you by the throat. 

Inexpressible the horror of dying thus ! Death sometimes 
expiates its atrocity by a certain terrible dignity. On the 
P 3 rre, in shipwreck, a man may be great ; in the flames, as in 
the foam, a superb attitude is possible, and a man transfigures 
himself. But in this case it is not so ; for the death is unclean. 
It is humiliating to expire in such a way, and the last floating 
visions are abject. 

The depth of the fontis varied, as did their length and dens- 
ity, according to the nature of the sub-soil. At times a fontb 
was three or four feet deep, at times eight or ten, and some-' 
times it was bottomless. In one the mud was almost solid, in 



LES MISERABLES 


463 


another nearly liquid. In the Luni^re fontis, a man would 
have taken a day in disappearing, while he would have been 
devoured in five minutes by the Ph61ippeaux slough. 

Jean Valjean found himself in presence of a slough of mud 
in a cavcvn of night. He felt the pavement depart &amp;om under 
him as he entered the slough ; there was water at top and 
mud underneath. He must pass it, for it was impossible to 
turn back ; Marius was dying, and Jean Valjean worn out. 
Where else couldfhe go ? Jean Valjean advanced ; the slough 
appeared but of sliglvt depth at the first few steps, but as he 
advanced his logs sank in. He soon had mud up to the middle 
of the leg, and water up to the middle of the knee. He walked 
along, raising Marius with both arms as high as he could 
above the surface of the water ; the mud now came up to his 
knees and the water to his waist. He could no longer draw 
back and he sank in deeper and deeper. This mud, dense 
enough for the weight of one man, could not evidently bear 
two. The water came up to his arm-pits, and he felt himself 
drowning ; he could scarce move in the depth of mud in which 
he was standing, for the density which was the support was also 
the obstacle. He still kept Marius up, and advanced with an 
extraordinary expenditure of strength, but he was sinking. 
He had only his head out of water, and his two arms sustaining 
Marius. As he still sank he threw back his face to escape the 
water and bo able to breathe ; any one who saw him in this 
darkness would have fancied he saw a mask floating on the 
gloomy waters ; he vaguely perceived above him Marius’s 
hanging head and livid face ; he made a desperate effort, 
and advanced his foot, which s^ck against something solid, a 
resting-place. It was high time. 

He drew himself up, and writhed and rooted himself with 
a species of fury upon this support. It produced on him the 
effect of the first step of a staircase re-ascending to life. This 
support met with in the mud, at the supreme moment, was the 
beginning of the other side of the roadway, which had fallen 
in without breaking, and bent under the water like a plank in 
a single piece. A well-constructed pavement forms a curve, 
and possesses such firmness. This fragment of roadway, partly 
submerged, but solid, was a real incline, and once upon it 
they were saved. Jean Valjean ascended it, and attained the 
other side of the slough. On leaving the water his foot caught 



464 


LES MISEBABLES 


against a stone, and lie fell on his knees. He found that this 
was just, and remained on them for some time, with his soul 
absorbed in words addressed to God. He rose, shivering, 
chilled, bent beneath the dying man he carried, dripping with 
filth, but with his soul full of strange brightness. •• 

He set out once again ; still, if he had not left his life in 
the fontis he seemed to have left his strength there. This 
supreme effort had exhausted him, and his fatigue was now so 
great that he was obliged to rest every three^or four paces to 
take breath, and leant against the waU. &lt; Once he was obliged 
to sit down on the banquette in order to alter Marius’s position, 
and believed that he should remain there. But if his vigour 
were dead, his energy was not so, and he rose again. He 
walked desperately, almost quickly, went thus one hundred 
yards without raising his head, almost without breathing, 
and all at once ran against the waB. He had reached an elbow 
of the drain, and on arriving head down at the turning came 
against the wall. He raised his eyes, and at the end of the 
passage down there, far, very far away, perceived a light. 
But this time it vras no terrible light, but white, fair light. 
It was daylight. Jean Valjean saw the outlet. A condemned 
soul that suddenly saw from the middle of the furnace the 
issue from Gehenna would feel what Jean Valjean felt. Jean- 
Valjean no longer felt fatigue, he no longer felt Marius’s 
weight, he found again his muscles of steel, and ran rather 
than walked. As he drew nearer, the outlet became more 
distinctly designed ; it was an arch, not so tall as the roof, 
which gradually contracted, and not so wide as the gallery, 
which grew narrower at the ^ame time as the roof became 
lowered. The tunnel finished inside in the shape of a funnel, 
a faulty reduction, imitated from the wickets of houses of 
correction, logical in a prison, but illogical in a drain, and 
which has since been corrected. 

Jean Valjean reached the issue, and then stopped ; it was 
certainly the outlet, but they could not get out. The arch 
was closed by a strong grating, and this grating, which ap- 
parently rarely turned on its oxydized hinges, was fastened 
to the stone wall by a heavy lock, which, red with rust, seemed 
an enormous brick. The key-hole was visible, as well as the 
bolt deeply plunged into its iron-box. It was one of those 
Bastille l^ks of which ancient Paris was so prodigal. Beyond 



LES MISEBABLES 466 

the grating we^e the open air, the river, daylight, the bank 
very narrc f, but enfficicnt to depart, the distant quays. 
Fans, that gulf in which a man hides himself so easily, tho 
wide horizon, and liberty. On the right could be distinguished, 
down thc^ river, the Pont de Jena, and up it the Pont des 
Invalides ; the spot would have been a favourable one to 
await night and escape. It was one of the most solitary 
points in Paris. Jean Valjean laid Marius along the wall, 
and seized the blirs with both hands, but the grating did not 
stir. What would become of him ? He had not the strength 
to turn back ajid recommence the frightful journey which he 
had already made. Moreover, how was he to cross again 
that slough from which he had only escaped by a mirJicle ? 

It was all over, and all that Jean Valjean had done was 
useless : God opposed it. They were both caught in the 
dark and immense web of death, and Jean Valjean felt the 
fearful spider already running along tho blatik threads in the 
darkness. He turned his back to the grating and fell on the 
pavement near Marius, who was still motionless, and whose 
head had fallen between his knees. There was no outlet, 
that was the last drop of agony. Of whom did he think in 
this profound despondency ? Neither of himself nor of 
Marius ! Of Cossette. In the midst of his annihilation a hand 
was laid on his shoulder, and a low voice said, — 

“Half shares.” 

Jean Valjean fancied that he was dreaming. He had not 
heard a footstep. Was it possible ? He raised his eyes, and 
a man was standing before him. This man was dressed in a 
blouse, his feet were naked, anc^ he held his shoes in his hand ; 
he had evidently taken them off in order to be able to reach 
Jean Valjean without letting his footsteps be heard. Jean 
Valjean had not a moment’s hesitation ; however unexpected 
the meeting might be, the man was Imown to him — it was 
Th6nardier. Although, so to speak, aroused with a start, 
Jean Valjean, accustomed to alarms and to unexpected blows, 
which it is necessary to parry quickly, at once regained pos- 
session of aU his presence of mind. Th6nardier, raising his 
right hand to the level of his forehead, made a screen of it ; 
then he drew his eyebrows together vdth a wink, which, with 
a slight pinching of the lips, characterizes the sagacious atten- 
tion of a man who is striving to recognize another- He did 



466 


LES MISEBABLES 


not succeed. Jean Yaljean was turning his back to the 
light, and was besides so disfigured, so filthy and blood-stained, 
that he could not have been recognized in broad daylight. 
On the other hand, Th4nardier, with his face lit up by the 
light from the grating, a cellar brightness, it is true, livid, 
but precise in its lividness, leapt at once into Jean Valjean’s 
eyes, to employ the energetic popular metaphor. This in- 
equality of conditions sufficed to insure some advantage to 
Jean Yaljean in the mysterious duel which wtis about to begin 
between the two situations and the twv&gt; men. The meeting 
took place between Jean Yaljean masked and Thenardier 
unmasked. Jean Yaljean at once perceived that Th6nardier 
did not recognize him ; and they looked at each other silently 
in this gloom, as if taking one another’s measure. Th6nardier 
was the first to break the silence. 

“ How do you mean to get out ? ” 

Jean Yaljean not replying, Th6nardier continued, — “ It is 
impossible to pick the lock; and yet you must get out of here.’* 
That is true,” said Jean Yaljean. 

” Well, then, half shares.” 

What do you mean ? ” 

“ You have killed the man, very good, and I have the key.** 
Thenardier pointed to Marius, and continued, — ” I do not 
know you, but you must be a friend, and I wish to help you.** 
Jean Yaljean began to understand. Thenardier took him 
for an assassin. The latter continued : “ Listen, mate, you 
did not kill this man without looking to see what he had in 
his pockets. Give me my half, and I open the gate.*’* 

And half drawing a heavy k^y from under his ragged blouse, 
he added, — 

“ Would you like to see how the key is made ? look here.** 
Jean Yaljean was so astounded that he doubted whether 
what he saw was real. It was Providence appearing in a 
horrible form, and the good angel issuing from the ground in 
the shape of Thenardier. The latter thrust his hand into a 
wide pocket hidden under his blouse, drew out a rope, and 
hand^ it to Jean Yaljean. 

“ There,” he said, “ I give you the rope into the bargain.** 
“ What am I to do with the rope ? ” 

** You also want a stone, but you will find that 
outside, as there is a heap of them.** 



LES MISERABLE8 


467 


** What am I to do with a stone ? ” 

“ Why, you ass, as you are going to throw the cove into 
the river you want a rope and a stone, or else the body will 
float on the water.” 

Jean Valjean took the rope mechanically. 

“ And now let’s settle our business. You have seen my 
key, so show me your money.” 

Jean Valjean felt in his pockets. It was, as will bo remem- 
bered, always hfe rule to have money about him, for the 
gloomy life of experiments to which he was condemned ren- 
dered it a law, for him. This time, however, he was unpro- 
vided. In putting on upon the previous evening his National 
Guard uniform, he forget, mournfully absorbed as he was, to 
take out his pocket-book, and he had only some change in 
his waistcoat-pocket. He turned out his pocket, which was 
saturated with slime, and laid on the banquette a louis d or- 
two five- franc pieces, and five or six double sous, Thenardier 
thrust out his lower lip with a significant twist of the neck. 

“ You did not kill him for much,” he said. 

He then began most familiarly feeling in Jean Valjean and 
Marius’s pockets, and Jean Valjean, who was most anxious to 
keep his back to the light, allowed him to do so. While 
feeling in Marius’s coat, Thenardier, with the dexterity of a 
conjuror, managed to tear off, without Jean Valjean perceiv- 
ing the fact, a strip, which he concealed under his blouse ; 
prWbly thinking that this piece of cloth might help him to 
recognize hereafter the assassinated man and the assassin. 
However, he found no more than the thirty francs. 

“ It is true,” ho said ; “ onq with the other, you have no 

°^Md ^forgetting his phrase half-shares, he took all. 

- Now?4fri, yoifmustbeoff. It is here as at the f mm ; 

you pay whL you go out. You have paid, so you can go. 

^ TWnLdier helped Jean Valjean ^ 

back and then proceeded to the grating on P . 

mmwM 



468 


LES MIfiBRABLES 


frequently than might be Bupposei This gentleness was ill- 
omened ; it spoke of furtive comings and goings, of the mysteri- 
ous entrances and exits of night-men, and the crafty foot- 
fall of crime. The sewer was evidently an accomplice of 
some dark band, and this taciturn grating was a-* receiver. 
Th^nardier held the door ajar, left just room for Jean Valjean 
to pass, relocked the gate, and plunged back into the darkness, 
making no more noise than a breath ; he seemed to walk 
with the velvety pads of a tiger. A moment later this hideous 
providence had disappeared, and Jean •V'al jean was outside. 

He let Marius slip down on the bank. They were out- 
side ; the miasma, the darkness, the horror, were behind him. 
Night unfolded over Jean Valjean^s head all the sweetness of 
infinitude. Jean Valjean could not refrain from contemplat- 
ing the vast clear obscure which he had above him, and pen- 
sively took a bath of ecstasy and prayer in the majestic silence 
of the eternal heavens. Then, as if the feeling of duty returned 
to him, he eagerly bent down over Marius, and lifting some 
water in the hollow of his hand, softly threw a few drops in 
his face. Marius’s eyelids did not move, but he still breathed 
through his parted lips. Jean Valjean ’was again about to 
plunge his hand into the river, when he suddenly felt some 
annoyance, as when we feel there is some one behind us, 
though we cannot see him. He turned round, and there was 
really some one behind him, as there had been just before. 

A man of tall stature, dressed in a long coat, with folded 
arms, and carrying in his right hand a cudgel, whose leaden 
knob could be seen, was stan^ng a few paces behind Jean Val- 
jean, who was leaning over B(arius. Jean Valjean recognized 
Javert,* who, as it happened, h^ been this night on the traokof 
Thenardier, and had inexplicably lost him at this very spot. 

Jean Valjean had passed from one rock to another ; these 
two meetings one upon the other, falling from Thenardier on 
Javert, were rude. Javert did not recognize Jean Valjean, 
who, as we have said, no longer resembled himself. Ho did 
not unfold his arms, but secu^ his grasp of his bludgeon by 
an imperceptible movement, and said, in a sharp, calm voice,— 
Who are you ? ” 
am Jean Valjean.” 

Javert placed his cudgel between his teeth, bent his knees, 
bowed his back, laid two powerful hands on Jean Valjean’s 



LES MISERABLES 469 

Bhoulders, wWch they held as in two vices, examined, and 
recognized him. Their faces almost touched, and Javert’s 
glance^ was terrific. Jean Valjean remained inert under 
J avert 8 gripe, like a lion enduring the claw of a lynx. 

‘Inspector Javert,” he said, “you have me. Besides, 
since this morning I have considered myself your prisoner. 
I did not give you my address in order to try and escape 
you. Take me, but grant me one thing.” 

Javert did ndt seem to hear, but kept his eye-balls fixed 
on Jean Valjean. His wrinkled chin thrust up his lips towards 
his nose, a sign of stem reverie. At length he loosed his 
hold of Jean Valjean, drew himself up, clutched his cudgel, 
and as if in a dream, muttered rather than asked this question, — 

“ What are you doing here ? and who is that man ? ” 

Jean Valjean replied, and the sound of his voice seemed 
to awaken Javert : “ It is of him that I wished to speak. 
Do with me as you please, but help me first to carry bim 
home. I only ask this of you.” 

Javert’s face was contracted in the same way as it always 
was when any one believed him capable of a concession ; still 
he did not say no. He stopped, took from his pocket a hand- 
kerchief, which he dipped in the water, and wiped Marius’s 
ensanguined forehead. 

“ This man was at the barricade,” he said in a low voice, 
and as if speaking to himself ; “ he was the one whom they 
called Manus.” 

“He is wounded,” said Jean Valjean. 

” He is a dead man,” said Javert. 

Jean Valjean replied: “Nq; not yet.” 

‘t Then you brought him from the barricade here?” Ja- 
vert observed. 

His preoccupation must have been great for him not to 
dwell on this alarming escape through the sewers, and not 
even remark Jean Valj can’s silence after his question, Jean 
Valjean, on his side, seemed to have a sole thought ; he con- 
tinued : “ He lives in the Marais, in the Rue des Fillea du 

Calvaire, with his grandfather. I do not know his name.” 

Jean Valjean felt in Marius’s pocket, took out the port- 
folio, opened it at the page on which Marius had wntten m 
pencil, and offered it to Javert. There was still sufficient 
fioating light in the air to be able to read, and Javert, besidesy 



470 


LES MISEBABLES 


had in his eyes the feline phosphorescence of night birds. 
He deciphered the few lines written by Marius, and growled, 
“ Gillenormand, No. 6, Rue des Filles du Calvaire.” Then 
he cried, “ Driver I ' ■ 

This was addressed to a coachman who was waiting 
above for Javert in case of need. A moment after the hack- 
ney which he drove was on the bank. Marius was deposited 
on the back seat, and Javert sat down by Jean Valjean's side 
on the front one. When the door was Ijlosed the fiacre 
started off rapidly along the quays in^tho direction of the 
Bastille. They quitted the quay and turned into the street ; 
and the driver, a black outline on his seat, lashed his lean 
horses. 

There was an icy silence in the hackney-coach ; Marius motion- 
less, with his body reclining in one corner, his head on his chest, 
his arms pendent, and his legs stiff, appeared to be only waiting 
for a coffin. Jean Valjean seemed made of gloom, and Javert 
of stone ; and in this fiacre full of night, whose interior, each 
time that it passed a lamp, seemed to bo lividly lit up as if 
by an intermittent flash, accident united and appeared to 
confront the three immobilities of tragedy, — the corpse, the 
spectre, and the statue. 

At each jolt over the pavement a drop of blood fell from 
Marius’s hair. It was quite night when the hackney-coach 
reached No. 6, Rue des Filles du Calvaire. Javert got out 
first, examined at a glance the number over the gateway, and 
raising the heavy knocker of hammered steel, stamped in the 
old style with a goat and a satyr contending, gave a violent 
knock. The foMing-door opqned slightly, and Javert pushed 
it open. The ]&gt;orter half showed himself, yawning, and searce 
awake, candle in hand. Javert addressed the porter in the 
tone which becomes the Government in the presence of the 
porter of a factious man, 

“ Any one live here of the name of Gillenormand 7 ” 

“ It is here. What do you want with him ? ” 

“ We have brought home his son.” 

“ His son ? ” the porter asked in amazement. 

^^He is dead.” The porter not seeming to comprehend, 
Javert added, ” He has been to the barricade, and here he is. 
Go and wake his father.” 

The porter did not stir. 



LES MISEBABLES 471 


Be off ! ” Javert continued. ** There will be a funeral 
here to-morrow.” 

The porter limited himself to awakening Basque ; Basque 
awoke Nicolette ; Nicolette awoke Aunt Gillenormaud. As 
for the grandfather, he was left to sleep, as it was thought 
that he would know the affair quite soon enough as it was. 

Marius was carried to the first floor, no one being acquainted 
with the fact in the rest of the house, and he was laid on an old 
sofa in M. Gdlenbrmand's ante-room, and, while Basque went 
to fetch a physician^and Nicolette opened the linen presses, 
Jean Valjean felt Javert touch his shoulder. He understood, 
and went down, Javert following close at his heels. They, 
got into the hackney-coach, and the driver on his box. 

“Inspector Javert,” Jean Valjean said, “grant me one 
thing more. Let me go home for a moment, and you can 
then do with me what you please.” 

Javert remained silent for a few moments with his chin 
thrust into the collar of his great-coat, and then let down 


the front window. „ 

“ Driver,” he said. “ No. 7, Rue de THomme Armfe. 
They did not speak during the entire ride. What did Jean 
Valjean want ? To finish what he had begun ; to warn Cosette, 
tell her where Marius was, give her perhaps some other useful 
information, and make, if he could, certain final arrangements. 

On entering the Rue deTHomme Anne the coach stopped, 
as the street was too narrow for vehicles to pass along it. 
Jean Valjean and Javert got out. The driver hunibly repre- 
sented, to “Mr. Inspector” that the Utrecht velvet of his 
coach was quite spoilt by the ^ood 

and 4ihe filth of the assassin, and he added that an indemnity 
£w muchdo you want, including the time you waited 

“«5s' trC and » ?tfTn?rcW^ 







472 


LSS MISliRABLES 


•• Very good,” said Javert, “ go up. I will wait for you here.” 

Jean Valjean looked at Javert, for this style of conduct 
was not at all a habit of Javert’s. He thrust open the gate, 
entered the house, shouted to the porter, who was in bed, and 
had pulled the string in that posture, “ It is I,” and mounted 
the staircase. On reaching the first storey he paused, for 
every Via dolorosa has its stations. The window was open, 
and as is the case in many old houses, the staircase obtained 
light from, and looked out on, the street. Jean Valjean, either 
to breathe or mechanically, thrust his head out of this window 
and looked down into the street. It is shorty and the lamp 
lit it from one end to the other. Jean Valjean had a bedazzle- 
ment of stupor : there was no one in it. Javert had gone away. 

When Jean Valjean left him he retired slowly from the Rue 
de THomme Arm6. He walked with drooping head for the 
first time in his life, and equally for the first time in his life with 
his hands behind his back. Up to that Javert had only as^ 
sumed, of Napoleon's two attitudes, the one which expresses 
resolution, the arms folded on the chest ; the one indicating 
uncertainty, the arms behind the back, was unknown to him* 
Now a change had taken place, and his whole person, slow and 
sombre, was stamped with anxiety. 

His situation was indescribable : to owe his life to a male- 
factor, to accept this debt and repay him ; to be, in spite 
of himself, on the same footing with an escaped convict, and 
requite one service with another service. One thing had as- 
tonished him, that Jean Valjean had shown him mercy, and 
one thing had petrified him, that he, Javert, had shown .mercy 
to Jean Valjean. 

One fact to which he constantly returned, was that he 
had just committed a frightful infraction of the law. He 
had closed his eyes to a relapsed convict who had broken his 
ban ; he had set a galley-slave at liberty. He had stolen 
from the laws a man who belonged to them. He had done 
this, and no longer understood himself. Authority was dead 
within him, and he no longer had a reason for hving. 

Was this endurable 7 No, it was a violent state, were there 
ever one, and there were only two ways of escaping from it ; 
one was to go resolutely to Jean Valjean and restore to the 
dungeon the man of the galleys ; the other — 

The darkness was complete, for it was the sepulchral mo* 



LES MISERABLES 473 

ment which follows midnight, a ceiling of clouds hid the 
stars : the houses in the Cit6 did not display a single light, 
no one passed, all the streets and quays that could be seen 
were deserted, and Notre Dame and the towers of the Palace 
of Justice appeared lineaments of the night. A lamp red- 
dened the edge of the quay, and the shadows of the bridges 
looked ghostly one behind the other. Rains had swelled the 
river. The spot where Javert was leaning was precisely 
above the rapids oof the Seine and that formidable whirlpool 
which unrolls itself a^d rolls itself up again like an endless 
screw. Javert stooped down and looked ; all was dark, and 
nothing could be seen, but the hostile coldness of the water 
and the sickly smell of the damp stones could be felt. Javert 
remained for some moments motionless, gazing at this opening 
of the darkness, and considered the invisible with an intent- 
ness which resembled attention. All at once he took o£E his 
hat and placed it on the brink of the quay. A moment after 
a tall black figure, which any belated passer by might have 
taken at a distance for a ghost, appeared standing on the 
parapet, stooped towards the Seine, then drew itself up, and 
fell straight into the darkness. There was a dull plash, and 
the shadows alone were in the secret of this obscure form 
which had disappeared beneath the waters. 

CHAPTER XXIV 

Basque and the porter had carried Marius, who was still 
lying motionless on the sofa on which he had been laid on 
arriving, into the drawing-room. The physician, who had 
been^sent for, hurried in, and Aunt Gillenormand had risen. 
Aunt Qillenormand came and went, horrified, clasping her 
hands, and incapable of doing anjrthing but saying, “ Can it 
be possible ? ” She added at intervals, “ Everything will be 
stained with blood.” 

By the surgeon’s orders, a tester-bed was put up near the 
sofa. He examined Marius, and after satisfying himself that 
the pulse still beat, that the patient had no penetrating 
wound in the chest, and that the blood at the corners of the 
lips came from the nostrils, he had him laid flat on the bed 
without a pillow, the head level with the body, and * 
little lower, and with naked bust, in order to facihtata the 



474 


LES MISERABLES 


breathing. The body had received no internal injury; a 
ball, deadened by the pocket-book, had deviated, and passed 
round the ribs with a iErightful gash, but as it was not deep, 
it was, therefore, not dangerous. The long subterranean 
march had completed the dislocation of the collar-bone, and 
there were serious injuries there. The arms were covered 
with sabre-cuts : no scar disfigured the face, but the head 
was cut all over with gashes. What would be the state of 
these wounds on the head, it was impossible to say yet. It 
was a serious symptom that they ha^ caused the faintness. 
And men do not always awake from such fainting fits ; the 
hemorrhage, moreover, had exhausted the wounded man. 

At the moment when the surgeon was wiping the face and 
gently touching with his finger the still closed eyelids, a door 
opened at the end of the room, and a tall, pale figure appeared, — 
— it was the grandfather. The riot during the last two days 
had greatly agitated, offended, and occupied M. Qillenormand ; 
he had not been able to sleep on the previous night, and he 
had been feverish all day. At night he went to bed at a 
very early hour, bidding his people bar up the house, and h^id 
fallen asleep through weariness. 

He was standing on the threshold, with one hand on the 
handle, his head slightly bent forw'ard and shaking, his body 
enfolded in a white dressing-gown, as straight and crease! ess as a 
winding-sheet : he was surprised, and looked like a ghost peer- 
ing into a tomb. He noticed the bed, and on the mattress this 
young bleeding man, of the whiteness of wax, with closed eyes, 
open mouth, livid cheeks, naked to the waist, marked all over 
with vermilion, wounded, motionless, and brightly illumined. 

The grandfather had from head to foot that shudder '^ich 
ossified limbs can have. His eyes, whose cornea was yellow 
owing to their great age, were veiled by a sort of glassy stare ; 
his entire face assumed in an instant the earthy angles of a 
skeleton’s head ; his arm fell pendent as if a spring had been 
broken in them, and his stupor was displayed by the out- 
spreading of all the fingers of his two old trembling hands. 

“ Marius ! ” he exclaimed. 

He has just been brought here, sir,” said Basque ; ” he 
went to the barricade, and — ” 

” He is dead, he is dead ! he has let himself be killed at the 
barricade through hatred of me; it was against me that 



LES MISERABLE8 


476 


he did it ! Ah, the blood-drinker ! that is the way, in which 
he returns to me. Woe of my life, he is dead ! ” 

He went up to Marius, who was still livid, motionless, and 
began wringing his arms. The old gentleman’s white lips moved 
as it were , mechanically, and allowed indistinct sentences to 
pass, which were scarce audible. “ Ah, heartless, ah ! clubbist I 
ah, scoundrel ! ah ! Septembrizer ! ” reproaches uttered in a 
low voice by a dying man to a corpse. By degrees, as such 
internal eruptione must always burst forth, the flood of words 
returned, but the graj^dfather seemed no longer to have the 
strength to utter them ; his voice was so hollow and choked 
that it seemed to come from the other brink of an abyss. 

“ I do not care a bit, I will die too. And since you were 
pitiless in letting yourself be killed so, I will not even feel 
sorry at your death ; do you hear. Assassin ! ” At this 
moment Marius slowly opened his eyes, and his glance, still 
veiled by lethargic surprise, settled on M. Gillenonnand. 

“ Marius ! ” the old man cried, “ Marius, my little Marius ! 
my child 1 my beloved son ! you open your eyes ! you look at 
me ! you are alive I thanks I ” 

And he fell down in a fainting fit. 

Marius was for a long time neither dead nor alive. He 
had for several weeks a fever accompanied by delirium, during 
which he repeated Cosette’s name for whole nights with the 
lugubrious loquacity of his excited state. So long as there 
was danger from his wounds M. GiUenormand, broken- 
hearted by the bedside of his grandson, was like Manus, neither 

^^ve”ty'^dly! and sometimes twice a day, ® ybite^hair^ and 
weU.dres8ed gentleman, such was the description given by the 
norter came'^to inquire after the wounded man, ® 

Mrcel’ of lint for the dressings. At length, on Scpteml^r 
7th, four months, day by day, from the "the'^K 

he had been brought home dymg to his 

him he no longer pronounced this name, ana g 



476 


LES MISEBABLBS 


supposed that he had forgotten it, but he was silent precisely 
because his soul was there. He knew not what had become 
of Cosetto : the whole affair of the Rue de la Chanvrerie was 
like a cloud in his memory. Eponiue, Gavroche, Uaboeuf, 
the Th6nardiers, and all his friends, mournfully mangled with 
the smoke of the barricade, the strange passage of M. Fauchele- 
Tent through that blood-stained adventure, produced upon 
him the effect of an enigma in a tempest : he understood no- 
thing of his own life, he knew not ho,w or -by whom he had 
been saved, and no one about him knew it either : all they 
were able to tell him was that he had been brought there 
at night in a hackney-coach : but there was in this mist one 
immoveable point, a resolution, a will — ^to find Cosette again. 

One day M. Gillenormand, while his daughter was arrang- 
ing the pUals and cups on the marble slab of the side-board, 
leant over Marius, and said in his most tender accent, — 
Look you, my little Marius, in your place I would rather 
eat meat than fish ; a fried sole is exccUent at the beginning 
of a convalecence, but a good cutlet is necessary to put the 
patient on his legs.” 

Marius, whose strength had nearly quite returned, sat up, 
rested his two clenched fists on his sheet, looked his grand- 
father in the face, assumed a terrible air, and said, — 

“ That induces me to say one thing to you.” 

•‘What is it?” 

That I wish to marry.” 

” Foreseen,” said the grandfather, bursting into a laugh* 
” You shall have your little maid.” 

Marius, stupefied and dazzled, trembled in all his limbs, 
and M. Gillenormand continued, — 

” Yes, you shall have the pretty little dear. She comes 
every day in the form of an old gentleman to ask after you. I 
made inquiries ; she lives at No. 7, Rue de THomme Arm4. 
Ah ! there we are ! Ah, you wwt her, do you ? Well, you 
shall have her. liook you, I saw that you did not bve me, 
and I said, ** What can I do to make that animal love me ? ” 
I said, ‘ Stav, I have my little Cosette ready to hand. 1 will 
give her to him, and then he must love me a little, or tell me 
the reason why.' Ah ! you believed that the old man would 
storm, talk big, cry no, and lift his cane against all this 
dawn* Not at all. Cosette, very good ; love, very good ; 



LES MISEBABLES i77 

I aak for nothing better ; take the trouble, nr, to marry, be 
Iwppy. my beloved child " ^ 

After saying this the old man burst into sobs; he took 
Mariiw 8 head and pressed it to his old bosom, and both began 
weeping, yhat is one of the forms of supreme happiness. 

My father ! ** Mariua exclaimed. 

“ Ah, you love me then ! " the old man said. 

There was an ineiSable moment ; they were choking, and 
could not speak ;#at length the old man stammered : “ Come ! 
the stopper is taken ^ut of him ; he called me father.” 

Marius disengaged his head from his grandfather’s arms, 
and said, gently, — 

‘‘ Now that I am better, father, I fancy I could see her,** 
“ Foreseen, too, you will see her to-morrow/' 

Father 1 ” 

“ Well, what ? ” 

“ Why not to-day ? " 

“ Well, to-day, done for to-day. You have called me father 
thrice, and it’s worth that. I will see about it and she shall be 
brought here. Foreseen, I tell you.” 

Cosette and Mariua saw each other again. We will not 
attempt to describe the interview : for there are things which 
we must not attempt to paint : the sun is of the number. The 
whole family, Basque and Nicolette included, were assembled 
in Marius's chamber at the moment when Cosette entered. She 
appeared in the doorway, and behind her had entered a white- 
haired man, serious, but still smiling, though the smile was 
wandering and poignant. It was “ Monsieur Fauchelevent,'* 
— ^it was Jean Valjean. He was weU-dressed, as the porter had 
Baic(, in a new black suit and a white cravat. When M. 
Fauchelevent arrived with Cosette the porter could not refrain 
from confiding this aside to his wife, “ I don't know why, but 
I fancy that I have seen that face before.” M. Fauchelevent 
remained standing by the door of Marius's room, as if afraid ; he 
held under his arm a packet rather like an octavo volume wrap- 
ped in paper. The paper was green, apparently from mildew. 

** Has this gentleman always got books under his arm like 
that ? ” Mademoiselle Gillenormand, who was not fond of 
books, asked Nicolette in a whisper. 

•• Well,” M. Gillenormand, who had heard her, answered m 
the same key, he is a savant, is that his fault f Monsieur 



478 


LES MISERABLES 


Boulard, whom I knew, never went out without a book either^ 
and had always got one close to his heart/’ 

Then bowing, he said, in a loud voice : “ M. Tranclielevent.” 

Father Oillenormand did not do it purposely, but an inat- 
tention to proper names was an aristocratic way of his. 

** Monsieur Tranchelevent, I have the honour of requesting 
this lady's hand for my grandson, M. le Baron Marius Pont- 
mercy I " 

Monsieur “ Tranchelevent " bowed. c 

“ All right," the grandfather said. , 

And turning to Marius and Cosette, with both arms ex- 
tended in benediction, he cried, 

“ You have leave to adore each other." 

They did not let it be said twice, and the prattling began. 
They talked in a whisper, Marius reclining on his couch and 
Cosette standing by his side. “ Oh, Heaven ! " Cosette mur- 
mured, “ I see you again : it is you. To go and fight like 
that ! But why ? It is horrible. For four months I have 
been dead. Oh, how wicked it was of you to have been at 
that battle ! What had I done to you ! I forgive you, 
but you will not do it again." 

** Angel ! " said Marius. 

Angd is the only word in the language which cannot be 
worn out ; no other word would resist the pitiless use which 
lovers make of it. 

Aunt Oillenormand witnessed vrith stupor this irruption of 
light into her antiquated house. This stupor had nothing 
aggressive about it; it was not at all the scandalized and 
envious glance cast by an owl at two ring-doves ; it was the 
stupid eye of a poor innocent of the age of fifty-seven ; it 
was a spoiled life looking at that triumph, love. 

** Mademoiselle Oillenormand the elder," her father said 
to her, “ I told you that this would happen." 

He remained silent for a moment, and added, — 

" Look at the happiness of others." 

Then he 'turned to Cosette. 

" This darling is exquisite. She is a very little girl and a 
very gr^t lady. She will be only a baroness, and that is a 
derogation, for she is bom to be a marchioness. What eye- 
lashes she has ! My children, love one another ; be foolish 
over ity for love is the stupidity of men and the cleverness of 



LES MISERABLES 


479 


God. So adore one another. StiU," he added, suddenly 
growing sad, what a misfortune ! more than half I possess is 
sunk m annuities ; so long as I live it will be all right, but 
when I am dead, twenty years hence, ah ! my poor children, 
you will not have a farthing. Your pretty white hands, Ma- 
dame la Karonne, will be wrinkled by work." 

Here a serious and calm voice was heard saying, — 
Mademoiselle Euphrasie Pauchelevent has six hundred 
thousand francs.” 

It was Jean Valjean^s voice. He had not yet uttered a 
syllable ; no one seemed to remember that he was present, 
and he stood ihotionless behind all these happy people. 

“ Who is the Mademoiselle Euphrasie in question ? ” the 
startled grandfather asked. 

Myself,” said Cosette. 

“ Six hundred thousand francs ! ” M. Gillenormand repeated. 

** Less fourteen or fifteen thousand, perhaps,” Jean Val- 
jean said. 

And he laid on the table the parcel which Aunt Gillenor- 
mand had taken for a book. Jean Yaljean himself opened the 
packet ; it was a bundle of bank-notes. They were turned over 
and counted ; there were six hundred bank-notes for a thou- 
sand francs, and one hundred and sixty-eight for five hundred, 
forming a total of five hundred and eighty-four thousand francs. 

” That's a famous book,” said M. Gillenormand. 

As for Marius and Cosette, they were looking at each other 
during this period, and hardly paid any attention to the cir- 
cumstance. 

Of (bourse our readers have understood, that Jean Valjeau 
after the Champmathieu affair was enabled by his escape for a 
few 3ays to come to Paris, and with draw in time from Laffitte's 
the sum he had gained under the name of M. Madeleine at 
M.-sur-M. ; and that, afraid of being re-captured, which in 
fact happened to him shortly after, he buried this sum in the 
forest of Montfermeil, at the spot called the Blaru bottom. 
The sum, six hundred and thirty thousand francs, -all in bank- 
notes, occupied but little space, and was contained in a box ; 
but in order to protect the box from damp ho placed it in an 
oak coffer filled with chips of chestnut-wood. In the same 
coffer he placed his other treasure, the Bishop's candlesticks, 
which it will be remembered he carried off in his escape from 



480 


LES MISERABLBS 


M.-8ur-M — . In a recent visit to the Blaru bottom, he had 
secretly removed that treasure, which he now represented as 
the fortune of Cosette. 

All preparations were made for the marriage, and the phy- 
sician, on being consulted, declared that it might take place 
in February. It was now December, and a few ravishing weeks 
of perfect happiness slipped away. 

Cosette and Marius had suddenly passed from the sepulchre 
into paradise ; the transition had not been prepared, and they 
would have been stunned if they had not been dazzled. 

“ Do you understand anything of all this ? ** Marius would 
say to Cosette. 

“ No,'' Cosette answered, “ but it seems to me as if le Bon 
Dieu were looking at us." 

Jean Valjean did everything, smoothed everything, concili- 
ated everything, and rendered everything easy. As he had 
been Mayor, he was called to solve a delicate problem, the 
secret of which he alone possessed, — the civil status of Cosette. 
To tell her origin openly might have prevented the marriage, 
but he got Cosette out of all ^fficulties. He arranged for her a 
family of dead people, a sure method of not incurring any 
inquiry. Cosette vras the only one left of an extinct family. 
Cosette was not his daughter, but the daughter of another 
Pauchelevent. Two brothers Pauchelevent had been garden- 
ers at the convent of the Little Piepus : they went to this 
convent ; the best testimonials and moat satisfactory char- 
acter were given ; for the good nuns, little suited, and but 
little inclined to solve questions of paternity, had never known 
exactly of which of the two Fauchelevents Cosette ^as the 
daughter. They said what was wanted, and said it zealously. 
An act of notoriety was drawn up, and Cosette became by 
law Mademoiselle Euphrasie Pauchelevent, and was declared 
an orphan both on the father's and mother's side. Jean Val- 
jean managed so as to be designated, under the name of 
Pauchelevent, as guardian of Cosette, with M. Qillenormand 
as supervising guardian. As for the five hundred and eighty- 
four thousand francs, they were a legacy left to Cosette by a 
dead person who wished to remain unknown : the original 
legacy had been five hundred and ninety-four thousand francs, 
but ten thousand had been spent in the education of Made- 
moiselle Euphrasie, five thousand of which had been paid to 



LES MISEBABLES 481 

the convent. This legacy, deposited in the hands of a third 
pmy, was to be handed over to Cosette upon her majority, or 
at the period of her marriage. 

Cosette learned that she was not the daughter of the old 
man whom she had so long called father ; he was only a relation, 
and another Fauchelevent was her real father. At another 
moment this would have grieved her, but in the inellable 
hour she had now reached it was only a slight shadow, a passing 
cloud ; and she Jiad so much joy that this cloud lasted but a 
short time. She had Marius : the young man came, the old 
man disappeared ; afe is so. And then, Cosette had been 
accustomed for many long years to see enigmas around her ; 
every being who has had a mysterious childhood is ever ready 
for certain renunciations. Still she continued to call Jean 
Valjean “ father." 

Aunt Qillenormand regarded all this with her usual imper- 
turbable placidity. She had at first been in some doubt as 
to the propriety of the marriage ; but the six hundred thou- 
sand francs had settle the old maid's indecision. Her 
father was accustomed to take her so little into account that 
he had not consulted her as to the consent to Marius’s marriage. 
Somewhat roused internally, but externally impassive, 
she said to herself, “ My father settled the marriage question 
wnthout me, and I will settle the question of the inheritance 
without him." She was rich, in fact, and her father was not 
80 , and it is probable that if the marriage had been poor she 
would have left it poor. But Cosette’a half-a-million of francs 
pleased the aunt and changed her feelings with respect to the 
loving couple ; consideration is due to six hundred thousand 
francs, and it was evident that she could not do otherwise 
than leave her fortune to these young people, because they 
no longer required it. ^ 

It was arranged that the couple should reside at M. Gille- 
normand's, and the grandfather insisted on giving them his 
bedroom, the finest room in the house. He furnished this 
room with a heap of old articles of gallantry ; he had it hung 
with an extraordinary fabric which he had in the piece, and 
believed to be Utrecht, a gold satin ground with velvet auri- 

was with that stuff,** he said, “ that the bed of the 
Duchess d'Auville in la Booheguyon was hung. He placed 



482 


LES MISEBABLES 


on the mantel-piece a figure in Saxon porcelain carrying a 
mufiE on its naked stomach. 

The lovers saw each other daily ; and Cosette came with 
M. Fauchelevent. Marius, in his innermost thoughts, sur- 
rounded with all sorts of questions this M. Fauchelevent, who 
was to him, simple, w'ell-wishing, and cold. At times doubts 
occurred to him as to his own recollections ; he had a hole in 
his memory, a blank spot, an abyss dug by four months of 
agony. Many things were lost in it, and he was beginning to 
ask himself whether it was the fact that had seen M. Fauche- 
levent, a man so serious and so calm, at the barricade. 

At moments Marius buried his face in his hand, and the 
tumultuous and vague past traversed the fog which he had in 
his brain. He saw Maboeuf fall again, he heard Gavroehe 
singing under the grape-shot, and he felt on his lips the cold- 
ness of Eponine's forehead ; Enjolras, Courfeyrac, Jean Pro- 
vaire, Combeferre, Bossuet, Grantaire, all his friends rose be- 
fore him, and then disappeared. M. Fauchelevent had almost 
a place among these vanished beings. Marius hesitated to 
believe that the Fauchelevent of the barricade was the same as 
that Fauchelevent in flesh and bone, so gravely seated by the 
side of Cosette. The first was probably one of those night- 
mares brought to him and carried away by his hours of delirium. 
Two men who have a common secret, and who, by a sort of 
tacit agreement, do not exchange a syllable on the subject, are 
not so rare as may be supposed. Once, however, Marius made 
an effort ; he turned the conversation on the Bue de la] Chan- 
vrerie, and turning to M. Fauchelevent, he said to him,— 

“ Do you know that street well ? ” 

“ What street ? 

” The Bue de la Chanvrerie.” 

I have never heard the name of that street," M. Fauche- 
levent said, in the most natural tone in the world. 

The answer, which related to the name of the street, and 
not to the street itself, seemed to Marius more conclusive than 
it really was. 

" Decidedly," he thought, ** I must have been dreaming. 1 
had an hallucination. It was some one that resembled him,, 
and M. Fauchelevent was not there." 

The enchantment, great though it was, did not efface other 
thoughts from Marius's mind. While the marriage arrange- 



LES MISERABLBS 


483 


ments were being m^e, and the fixed period was waited for 

He 0 *^ Bcrupulous retrospective researches. 
He owed gratitude in several quarters, he owed it for his 
lather, and he owed it for hiimelf . There was Thenardier. and 
here was the stranger who had brought him back to M. Gillenor- 
mands. Marius was anxious to find these two men acain as 
he did not wish to marry, be happy, and forget them, and 
learea lest these unpaid debts of honour might cast a shadow 
over his life, which would henceforth be so luminous. It was 
impossible for him tq leave all these arrears suffering behind 
him, and he wished, ere he entered joyously into the future, to 
obtain a receipt from the past. That Th6nardier was a villain 
took nothing from the fact that he had saved Colonel Pont- 
mcrcy. Thenardier was a bandit for all the world except for 
Marius. And Mariim, ignorant of the real scene on the battle- 
field of Waterloo, did not know this peculiarity, that his father 
stood to Thenardier in the strange situation of owing him life 
without owing him gratitude. Not one of the agents whom 
Marius employed could find Th6nardier'8 trail, and the dis- 
appearance seemed complete on that side. 

As for the other, the unknown man who had saved Marius, 
the researclies had at first some result, and then stopped short. 
They succeeded in finding again the hackney-coach which had 
brought Marius to the Rue des Filles du Calvaire on the night 
of June 6. The driver declared, that on the Cth June, by the 
order of a police agent, he had stopped from three p.m. till 
night-fall on the quay of the Champs Elysces, above the open- 
ing of the great sewer ; that at about nine in the evening the 
gate of the sewer which looks upon the river-bank opened ; 
th^,t a man came out, bearing bn his shoulders another man, 
who appeared to be dead ; that the agent who was watching 
at this point, had arrested the living man, and seized the dead 
man ; that he, the coachman, had taken ** all these people " 
into his hackney-coach ; that they drove first to the Rue des 
Filles du Calvaire, and deposited the dead man there ; that the 
dead man was M. Marius, and that he, the coachman, recog- 
nized him thoroughly, though he was alive this time ; that 
afterwards they got into his coach again, and a few yards from 
the gate of the Ajchives he was ordered to stop ; that he was 
paid in the street and discharged, and the agent took away the 
other man ; that he knew nothing more, and that the night was 



484 


LES MISERABLES 


very dark. Marius, as we said, remembered nothing. He 
merely remembered that he had been seized from behind by a 
powei^l hand, at the moment when he fell backwards from the 
barricade, and then all was efiaced for him. He had only 
regained his senses when he was at M. Gillenormand's. 

He lost himself in conjectures ; some one had brought him 
from the quarter of the Halles to the Champs Elysees, and 
how 1 By the sewer ? Extraordinary devotion ! Some 
one ? who ? it was the man whom Marius was seeking. Of 
this man, who was his saviour, he could dn/i nothing, not a trace, 
not the slightest sign. Marius, though compelled on this side 
to exercise a great reserve, pushed on his inquiries as far as 
the Prefecture of Police, but there the information which he 
obtained led to no better result than elsewhere. The 
Prefecture knew less about the matter than the driver of the 
hackney-coach. Why did this man not re-appear 1 Was he 
dead i who was the man ? No one was able to say ; the 
driver replied , — ** The night was very dark." The porter, 
whose candle had lit up Marius's tragic arrival, had alone 
remarked the man in question, and this was the description he 
gave of him, ‘‘ The man was frightful." 

One evening Marius was speaking in the presence of Cosette 
and Jean Valjean about all this singular adventure, the count* 
less inquiries he had made, and the inutility of his efforts ; Mon- 
sieur Fauchelevent's cold face offended him, and he exclaimed 
with a vivacity which had almost the vibration of anger, — 

“ Yes, that man, whoever he may be, was sublime. Do you 
know what he did, six } He must have gone more than a 
league and a half through frightful subterranean galleries, bent 
and bowed in the darkness, in the sewer, for more than half a 
league, sir, with a corpse on his back ! And for what object ? 
for the sole object of saving that corpse, and that corpse was 
myself. He said to himself , — * There is, perhaps, a gleam of 
life left here, and I will risk my existence for this wretched 
spark ! ' and he did not risk his existence once, but twenty 
times ! and each step was a danger. Oh ! if Cosette's six 
hundred thousand francs were mine — ** 

They are yours,” Jean Valjean interrupted. 

** Well, then," Marius continued, " 1 would give them to 
find that man again.^' 

Jean Valjean was silent. 



LES MISERABLES 


485 


The night of February 16th was a blessed night, for it had 
above its shadow the open sky. It was the wedding-night of 
Marius and Cosette. 

The marriage was celebrated in duo form. It rained on 
that day, but there is always in the sky a little blue patch 
at the service of happiness, which lovers see, even when the 
rest of creation are under their umbrellas. On the previous 
day, Jean Valjean had handed to Marius, in the presence of 
M. Gillenormaud, the five hundred and eighty-four thousand 
francs. As the niaipage took place in the ordinary way, the 
deeds were very simple. Toussaint was henceforth useless to 
Jean Valjean, so Oossette inherited her, and promoted her to 
the rank of lady's-maid. As for Jean Valjean, a nice room 
was furnished expressly for him at M. Qillenorniand's, and 
Cosette had said to him so irresistibly, — Father, I implore 
you," that she had almost made him promise that he would 
come and occupy it. A few days before that fixed for the 
marriage, an accident happened to Jean Valjean ; he slightly 
injured the thumb of his right hand. It was not serious, and 
he had not allowed any one to poultice it, or even see it, not 
even Cosette. Still, it compelled him to wrap up his hand in 
a bandage and wear his arm in a sling, and this, of course, 
prevented him from signing anything. M. Gillenormand, as 
supervising guardian to Cosette, took his place. We will not 
take the reader either to the mayoralty or to church. We will 
restrict ourselves to noting an incident which, though unno- 
ticed by the bridal party, marked the drive from the Rue des 
Filles du Calvaire to St. Paul's church. 

The Rue Saint Louis was being repaired at the time, and 
it yras blocked from the Rue dfl Parc Royal, hence it was im- 
possible for the carriage to go direct to St. Paul's As they 
were obliged to change their course, the most simple plan was 
to turn into the boulevard. One of the guests drew attention 
to the fact that, as it was Shrove Tuesday, there would be a 
block of vehicles. “ Why so I " M. Gillenormand asked. 
“ On account of the masks." ** Famous," said the grand- 
father ; “ we will go that way. These young people are going 
to marry and see the serious aide of life, and seeing the mas- 
querade will be a slight preparation for it." They turned into 
the boulevard ; the first carriage contained Cosette and Aunt 
Gillenormand, M. Gillenormand, and Jean Valjean. Marius, 



486 


LES MISERABLES 


still separated from his bride, according to custom, was in the 
second. The nuptial procession, on turning out of the Rue dea 
Fillesdu Calvairc, joined the long file of vehicles making an 
endless chain from the Madeleine to the Bastille, and from the 
Bastille to the Madeleine. Masks were abundant on the 
boulevard : and though it rained every now and then, Palisse, 
Pantaloon, and Gille were obstinate. In the good humour 
of that winter of 1833 Paris had disguised itself as Venus. We 
do not see such Shrove Tuesdays now-a-days, for as everything 
existing is a wide-spread carnival, ther^- is no carnival left. 

Accident willed it that one of the shapeless groups of masked 
men and women collected in a vast barouche, stopped on the 
left of the boulevard, while the wedding party stopped on the 
right. The carriage in which the masks were, noticed opposite 
to it the carriage in which was the bride. 

“ Hilloh ! said a mask, “ a wedding.” 

“ A false wedding,” another retorted, “ we are the true one.** 

And, as they were too far off to address the wedding party, 
and as they also feared the interference of the police, the two 
masks looked elsewhere. The whole vehicle load had plenty 
of work a moment after, for the mob began hissing it, which is 
the caress'^given by the mob to masquerades, and the two masks 
who had just spoken were obliged to face the crowd with their 
comrades, and found the projectiles from the arsenal of the 
Halles scarce sufficient to reply to the enormous barks of the 
people. A frightful exchange of metaphors took place between 
the masks and the crowd. In the meanwhile, two other masks 
in the same carriage, a Spaniard with an exaggerated nose, an 
oldish look, and enormous black moustaches, and a thin and 
very youtUul fish-girl, wearizf^ a half mask, had noticed the 
wedding also, and while their companions and the spectators 
were insulting each other, held a conversation in a low voice. 
Their aside was covered by the tumult and was lost in it. This 
was the dialogue, which we translate from the original slang. 

Look here. Do you see that old man in the wedding 
coach, with his arm in a sling 1 

“ Well ? ” 

** I feel sure that I know him.*^ 

Ah ! ” 

** May my neck be cut, and I never said you, thou, or I, 
in my life, if I do not know that Parisian.” 



LES MISEBABLES 


487 


** To-day Paris is Pantin." 

“ Can you see the bride by stooping ? 

“ No." 

“ And the bridegroom ? ” 

“ There is no bridegroom in that coach, unless it be that 
other old man." 

“Come, try and get a look at the bride by stoopine." 

“I can’t." 

“ No matter, that old fellow who has something the matter 
with his paw, I feel^certain I know him." 

“ And what good will it do you, your knowing him ? " 

“Listen. You must do something." 

“ What is it ? " 

“ Got out of our trap and follow that wedding ; to know 
whore it goes and what it is. Make haste and get down; run, 
my daughter, for you are young.” 

“ I can’t leave the carriage.’* 

“ Why not ? ’’ 

“ I am hired. I owe the Prefecture my day’s work." 

“ That’s true." 

“ If I leave the carriage, the first inspector who sees me will 
arrest me. You know that." 

“ Yes, I know it. No matter, that old fellow bothers me. He 
is in the first carriage, the bride’s carriage. So he is the father." 

“ How does that concern me ? ” 

“ Listen.” 

“ Well, what ? ” 

“ I can only go away masked, for I am hidden here, and no 
one knows I am here. But to-morrow there will be no masks, 
for, it is Ash Wednesday, and Prun a risk of being nailed. I 
shall be obliged to go back to my hole, but you are free." 

“ Well, what then ? ” 

“ You must try and find out where that wedding party is 
going to.” 

“ They can do as they like, for weddings are free.” 

“ That is not the thing. I tell you that you must try and 
find out for me what tl^t wedding is, and where it cornea 
from. Do you hear, Azelma ? ” 

The two files recommenced their opposite movement on the 
boulevard, and the carriage of masks lost out of sight that which 
contained the bride. 



488 


LES MISEBABLES 


All the marriage ceremonies were duly performed. After 
pronouncing before the mayor and before the priest all the yeses 
possible, after signing the register at the municipality and in the 
sacristy, after exchanging rings, after kneeling side by side un- 
der the canopy of white moire in the smoke of the oenser,— 
they arrived holding each other by the hand, admired and en- 
vied by all — Marius in black, she in white — preceded by the 
beadle in the colonel’s epaulettes, striking the dag-stones with 
his halbert, between two rows of dazzled spectetors at the 
church doors, which were thrown wide opf.n, ready to get into 
their carriage — and then all was over. Cosette could not yet 
believe it. She looked at Marius, she looked at the crowd, 
looked at heaven ; it seemed as if she were afraid of awaking. 
Her astonished and anxious air imparted something strangely 
enchanting to her. In returning they both rode in the same 
carriage, Marius seated by Cosette’s side, and M. Gillenormand 
and Jean Valjean forming their vis-i-vis. Aunt Gillenormand 
had fallen back a step and was in the second carriage. “ My 
children,” the grandfather said, ** you are now M. le Baron and 
Madame la Baronne, with thirty thousand francs a-year.” And 
Cosette, nuzzling against Marius, caressed his ear with the 
angelic whisper, “ It is true, then, my name is Marius, and I 
am Madame Thou.” These two beings were resplendent, they 
had reached the irrevocable and irrecoverable moment, the daz- 
zling point of intersection of all youth and all joy. 

The delight of these two hearts overflowed upon the crowd 
and imparted meriment to the passers-by. People stopped in 
the Rue 8t Antoine, in front of St Paul’s, to look through the 
carriage-window — the orange flowers trembling on Cosette’s 
head. Then they returned to the Rue des Filles du Calvairre 
— ^home. Marius, side by side with Cosette, ascended, tri- 
umphantly and radiantly, that staircase up which he had been 
dragged in a dying state. There were flowers everywhere, and 
the house was no less fragrant than the church ; after the in- 
cense the rose. Marius gazed at Oosette’s charming bare arm 
and the pink things which could be vaguely seen through the 
lace of the stomacher, and Cosette, catching Marius’s glance, 
blushed to the white of her eyes. A good many old friends 
of the Gillenormand family had been invited, and they thronged 
round Cosette, outvying each other in calling her Madame la 
Baronne. The officer, Thecdule Gillenormand, now captain, 



LES MISEBABLES 


489 


had come from Chartres, where he was stationed, to be 
present at his cousin’s marriage : Cosette did not recognize him. 
He, on his side, accustomed to bo thought a pretty fellow 
by the women, remembered Cosette no more than any other- 

Cosette had never been more affectionate to Jean Val- 
jean, and she was in unison with Father Gillenormand ; while 
he built up joy in aphorisms and maxims, she exhaled love and 
beauty like a perfume. Happiness wishes everybody to bo 
happy. In taljpng to JcanjValjeaii she formed inflections of her 
voice from the time^hen she was a little girl, and caressed him 
with a smile, A banquet had been prepared in the dining-room 
which was a furnace of gay things ; in the centre, above the 
white glistening tables, hung a Venetian chandelier, with all 
sorts of coloured birds, blue, violet, red, and green, perched 
among the candles ; round the chandelier were girandoles, and 
on the walls were mirrors with three and four branches ; glasses, 
crystal, plate, china, crockery, gold, and silver, all flashed and 
rejoiced. The spaces between the candelabra were filled up 
with bouquets, so that where there was not a light there was 
a flower. In the anteroom three violins and a flute played some 
of Haydn’s quartettes. Jean Valjean had seated himself on a 
chair in the drawing-room, behind the door, which, being thrown 
back, almost concealed him. A few minutes before they sat 
down to table Cosette gave him a deep courtesy, while spread- 
ing out her wedding-dress with both hands, and with a tenderly 
mocking look, asked him, “ Father, are you satisfled ? ** 

“ Yes,” said Jean Valjean, I am satisfied.” 

•‘WeU, then, laugh.” 

Jean Valjean began laughing. A few minutes later Basque 
c^me in to announce that dinner was on the table. The guests, 
preceded by M. Gillenormand, who gave his arm to Cosette, 
entered the dining-room, and collected round the table in the 
prescribed order. There was a large easy chair on either side of 
the bride, one for M. Gillenormand, the other for Jean Valjean. 
M. Gillenormand seated himself, but the other chair remained 
empty. All looked round for Monsieur Fauchelevent, but he 
was no longer there, and M. Gillenormand hailed Basque. 

Do you know where M. Fauchelevent is ? ” 

“ Yes, sir, I do,” Basque replied. “ Monsieur Fauchelevent 
requested me to tell you, sir, that his hand pained him, and that 
he could not dine with M. le Baron and Madame la Baronne. 



490 LES MISERABLES 

He therefore begged to be excused, but would call to-morrow. 
He has just left.” 

This empty chair momentarily chilled the effusion of the 
wedding feast ; but though M. Fauchelevent was absent M. 
Gillenormand was there, and the grandfather shone for two. 
He declared that M. Fauchelevent acted rightly in going to bed 
early if he were in pain, but that it was only a small hurt. 
This declaration was sufficient ; besides, what is a dark comer 
in such a submersion of joy ? Cosette and Majrius were in one 
of those egotistic and blessed moments w]|:ien people possess no 
other faculty than that of perceiving joy. 

The evening was lively, gay, and pleasant; the sovereign 
good-humour of the grandfather gave the tone to the whole 
festivity, and each was regulated by this almost centenericai 
cordiality. There was a little dancing, and a good deal of 
laughter ; it was a merry wedding, to which that worthy old 
fellow “ Once on a time ” might have been invited ; however, 
he was present in the person of Father Gillenormand. There 
was a tumult, and then a silence ; the married couple dis- 
appeared. A little after midnight the Gillenormand mansion be- 
came a temple. Here we stop, for an angel stands on the 
threshold of wedding-nights, smiling, and with finger on lip ; 
the mind becomes contemplative before this sanctuary in 
which the celebration of love is held. 

What had become of Jean Valjean ? Directly after he had 
laughed, in accordance with Cosette’s request, as no one was 
paying any attention to him, Jean Valjean rose, and, unnoticed, 
reached the anteroom. It was the same room which he had 
entered, eight months previously, black with mud and blood 
and gunpowder, bringing back the grandson to the grandfathpr. 
Basque, in black coat, Imee-breeches, white cravat, and white 
gloves, was placing wreaths of roses round each of the dishes 
which was going to be served up. Jean Valjean showed him 
his arm in a sling, requested him to explain his absence, and 
quitted the house. Jean Valjean return^ home, lit his candle, 
and went upstairs. The apartments were empty, and not even 
Toussaint was in them now. Jean Valjean's footsteps made 
more noise in the rooms than usual. He looked at the walls, 
closed some of the wardrobe drawers, and walked in and out 
of the rooms. Then he returned to his own room and placed 
his candle on the table ; he had taken his arm out of the sling 



LES MISEBABLES 


491 


and used it as if he were sufiering no pain in it. He went up 
to his bed, and his eyes fell on the inseparable of which Co- 
sette had been jealous, the little valise which never left him. 
On June 4th, when he arrived at the Rue de THomme Arm6, he 
laid it on a table ; he now walked up to this table with some ea- 
gerness, took the key out of his pocket, and opened the portman- 
teau. He slowly drew out the clothes in which, ten years pre- 
viously, Cosette had leftMontfermeil; first the little black dress, 
then the black* handkerchief, then the stout shoes, which Co- 
sette could almost l^^ive worn still, so small was her foot ; next 
the petticoat, then the apron, and, lastly, the woollen stockings. 
These stockings, in which the shape of a little leg was grace- 
fully marked, were no longer than Jean Valj can’s hand. 
All these articles were black, and it was he who took them for 
her to Montfcrmeil. He arranged the little clothes on the 
bed, the handkerchief near the petticoat, the stockings along 
with the shoes, the apron by the side of the dress, and he 
looked at them one after the other. She was then not much 
taller than that, she had her large doll in her arms, she had 
put her louis d’or in the pocket of this apron, she laughed, they 
walked along holding each other’s hand, and she had no one 
but him in the world. 

Then his venerable whitehead fell on the bed, his old stoical 
heart broke, his face w'as buried in Cosette’s clothes, and had 
any one passed up-stairs at that moment he would have heard 
frightful sobs. 

This night, however, Jean Valjean felt that he was fighting 
his last battle. A crushing question presented itself, — In 
what way was Jean Valjean going to behave to the happiness 
oftCosette and Marius ? That*happiness ho had willed, he had 
made ; and at this hour, in gazing upon it, he could have the 
species of satisfaction which a cutler would have who recog- 
nized his trade-mark upon a knife, when he drew it all smoking 
from his chest. Cosette had Marius, Marius possessed Cosette ; 
they possessed everything, even wealth, and it was his doing. 
But, now that this happiness existed and was there, how was 
he, Jean Valjean, to treat it ? Should he force himself upon it 
and treat it as if belonging to himself Doubtless Cosette 
was another man’s ; but should he, Jean Valjean, retain of 
Cosette all that he could retain ? Should he remain the sort 
of father, scarce seen, but respected, which he had hitherto 



492 


LSS MIS£RABLES 


been ? should he introduce himself quietly into Cosette’s 
house ? should he carry bis past to this future without saying 
a word ? should he present hi^olf there as one having a right ? 
and should he sit down, veiled, at this luminous hearth ? 
Should he smilingly take the hands of these two innocent 
creatures in his tragic hands ? should he place on the andirons 
of the Gilleuormand drawing-room his feet which dragged 
after them the degrading shadow of the law 7 Should he ren- 
der the obscurity on his brow and the cloud on theirs denser ? 
should he join his catastrophe to their tw^ felicities ? Should 
he force his galleys on these two dazzling children, or con- 
summate his own irremediable destruction ? On one side was 
the sacridce of Cosette, on the other his own. 

On which solution did he decide ? what determination did 
he form ? what extremity did he accept ? His confusing re- 
verie lasted all night ; he remained till day-break in the same 
position, leaning over the bed, prostrate beneath the enormity 
of fate. He remained thus for twelve hours, the twelve hours 
of a long winter’s night, frozen, without raising his he&lt;ad or 
uttering a syllable. To see him thus you would have thought 
him a dead man ; but all at once he started convulsively, and 
his mouth, pressed to Cosette’s clothes, kissed them ; then you 
could see that he was alive. 

CHAPTER XXV 

The day after a wedding is solitary, for people respect the 
retirement of the happy, and to some extent their lengthened 
slumbers. On the morning of Feb. 17 it was a little past ^nid- 
day when Basque, with napkin and feather-brush under his 
arm, was dusting the ante-rood, when he heard a low tap at 
the door. Basque opened and saw M. Fauchelevent ; he con- 
ducted him to the drawing-room, which was still in great con- 
fusion, and looked like the battle-field of the previous day’s joys. 

“ Really, sir,” observed Basque, “ we woke late.” 

Is your master up ? ” Jean Valjean asked. 

Which one ? the old or the new ? ” 

Monsieur Pontmercy.” 

“ Monsieur le Baron 7 ” said Basque, drawing himself up. 
** I will go and see. I will tell him that Monsieur Fauchelevent 
is here.” 

“ No, do not tell him it is I. Tell him that some one wishes 



LES MISEBABLES 


493 


to speak to him privately, and do not mention my name.” 

“ Ah ! ” said Basque. 

“ I wish to surprise him.” 

A few moments passed, during which Jean Valjean remained 
motionless at the spot where Basque left him. His eyes 
were hollow, and so sunk in their sockets by sleeplessness that 
they almost disappeared. His black coat displayed the fatigued 
creases of a coat which had been up all night, and the elbows 
were white with that down which friction with linen leaves on 
cloth. Jean Valjea^i looked at the window designed on the 
floor at his feet by the sun. There wjis a noise at the door, 
and he raised his eyes. Marius came in with head erect, 
laugliing mouth, a peculiar light over his face, a smooth fore- 
head,. and flashing a eye. He, too, had not slept either. 

“ It is you, father ! ” ho exclaimed, on perceiving Joan Val- 
jean “why, that ass Basque alTected the mysterious. But 
you have come too early, it is only half-past twelve, and CJosette 
is tisleep.” 

That word, father, addressed to M. Fauchelcvent by Marius, 
signified supreme felicity. There had always been, as wc know 
a coldness and constraint between them. Marius was so in- 
toxicated that the ice dissolved, and M. Fauchelcvent was for 
him, as for Cosettc, a father. He continued, the words over- 
flowed with him, which is peculiar to these divine paroxysms 
of joy, “ How delighted I am to see you I If you only knew 
how we missed you yesterday ! Good day, father ; how is 
your hand ? Better, is it not ? ” 

And, satisfied [with the favourable answer which he gave 
himself, he went on, — 

•“ We both spoke about you,*for Cosette loves you so dearly. 
You will not forget that you have a room here, for wo will not 
hear a word about the Rue de FHomme Arme. I do not know 
how you were able to live in that street, which is sick, and 
mean, and poor, which has a barrier at one end, where you feel 
cold, and which no one can enter ! You will c^mie and install 
yourself here, and from to-day, or else you wiU have to settle 
with Cosette. She intends to lead us both by the nose, I warn 
you. You have seen your room, it is close to ours, and looks 
out on the gardens : we have had the lock mended, the bed is 
made, it is all ready, and you have only to move in. You have 
won my grandfather, for you suit him : we will live together. 



494 


LES MISEBABLES 


Do you know whist ? You will overwhelm my grandfather if 
you are acquainted with whist. You will take Cosette for a 
walk on the day when I go to the Courts ; you will give her your 
arm, as you used to do, you remember, formerly at the Luxem- 
bourg. We are absolutely determined to be very happy, and 
you will share in our happiness do you hear, papa ? By the 
you will breakfast with ua this morning ? ” 

“ I have one thing to remark to you, sir,” said Jean Val- 
jean “I am an ex-convict.” 

The limit of the perceptible acute sounds may be as well 
exceeded for the mind as for the ear. These words, am an 
ex-convict/* coming from M. Fauchelevent’s mouth and enter- 
ing Marius’s ear went beyond possibility. Marius did not hear : 
it seemed to him as if something had been just said to him, but 
he knew not what. He stood with gaping mouth. Jean Val- 
jean unfastened the black handkerchief that supported his 
right arm, undid the linen rolled round his hand, bared his 
thumb, arfd showed it to Marius. 

“I have nothing the matter with my hand,” ho said. 

Marius looked at the thumb. 

“ There was never anything the matter with it,” Jean Val- 
jean added. 

There was, in fact, no sign of a wound, Jean Valjean con- 
tinued. “ It was proper that I should be absent from your 
marriage, and I was so far as I could. I feigned this wound 
in order not to commit a forgery, and render the marriage 
deeds null and void.” 

Marius stammered. “ What does this mean ? ” 

“ It means,” Jean Valjean replied, “ that I have been to 
the galleys.” 

” You are driving me mad,” said the horrified Marius. 

“Monsieur Pontmercy,” said Jean Valjean, “I was nine- 
teen years at the galleys for robbery. Then I was sentenced to 
them for life, for robbery and a second ofience. At the pre- 
sent moment I am an escaped convict.” 

Although Marius recoiled before the reality, refused the 
facts, and resisted the evidence, he was obliged to yield to it. 
He was beginning to understand, and as always happens in 
such a case, he understood too much. He foresaw a fnghtful 
destiny for himself in the future. 

“ Bay all, say all,” he exclaimed, “ you are Cosette’s fatherl” 



LES MISERABLES 


495 


And he fell back two steps, with a movement of indescrib- 
able horror. Jean Valjean threw up his head with such a ma- 
jestic attitude that he seemed to rise to the ceiling. 

“ It is necessary that you should believe me here, sir, al- 
though the oath of men like us is not taken in a court of 
justice.” He spoke slowly, but with great earnestness. “ You 
will believe me. I, Cosette’s father ! Before Heaven, no, Mon- 
sieur le Baron Pontmercy. I am a peasant of Favcrolles, 
and earned my» livelihood by pruning trees. My name is not 
Fauchelevent, but Jean Valjean. I am nothing to Cosette, so 
reassure yourself.” 

Marius stammered, “ Who proves it to me ? ” 

“ I do, since I say it.” 

Marius looked at this man : he was mournful and calm and 
no falsehood could issue from such calmness. 

“ I do believe you,” said Marius. 

Jean Valjean bowed his head, as if to note the fact, and 
continued, — 

“ What am I to CJosettc ? A passer-by. Ten years ago I 
did not know that she existed. I love her, it is true, for men 
love a child which they have seen little when old themselves ; 
when a man is old he feels like a grandfather to all little chil- 
dren. She was an orphan, without father or mother, and 
needed me, and that is why I came to love her. To-day Co- 
sette leaves my life, and our two roads separate. Henceforth I 
can do no more for her ; she is Madame Pontmercy. As for the 
six hundred thousand francs, you say nothing of them, but I will 
meet your thought half way : they arc a deposit. How 
was it placed in my hands ? No matter. I give up the deposit, 
and there is nothing more to ask of me. I complete the resti- 
tution by stating my real name, and this too concerns myself, 
for I am anxious that you should know who I am.” 

And Jean Valjean looked Marius in the face. Marius was 
stupefied by the new situation which appeared to him, and 
spoke to this man almost as if he were angry at the avowal. 

“ But why,” he exclaimed, “ do you tell me all this ? Who 
forces you to do so ? You might have kept your secret to your- 
self. You are neither denounced, nor pursued, nor tracked.” 

“You ask why I speak? I am neither denounced, nor 
pursued, nor tracked, you say. Yes, I am denounced ! Ye^, 
I am pursued ! Yes, I am tracked ! By whom ? By myself. It 



496 


LES MISEBABLES 


ifl I who bar my own passage, and I drag myself along, and I 
push myself, and I arrest myself, and exeoute myself, and 
when a man holds himself he is securely held.” 

And seizing his own collar, and dragging it towards Marius, he 
continued : “ Look at this fist. Do you think that it holds this 
collar so as not to let it go ? Well, conscience is a very differ- 
ent hand ! If you wish to be happy, sir, you must never 
understand duty ; for so soon as you have understood it it is 
implacable. People may say that it punishes .you for under- 
standing it, but no, it rewards you for for it places you 
in a hell where you feel God by your side. A man has no 
sooner torn his entrails than he is at peace with himself.” 
And with an indescribable accent, he added : ” Monsieur 
Pontmeroy, I am an honest man. It is by degrading myself 
in your eyes that I raise myself in my own. I am a galley-slave 
who obeys his conscience. I know very well that this is not 
likely, but what would you have me do ? It is so. I have 
made engagements with myself, and keep them. Look you, 
Monsieur Pontmercy, things have happened to me in my life.” 

Jean Viiljean made a pause, swallowing his saliva with an 
effort, as if his words had a bitter after-taste, and he con- 
tinued : “ When a man has such a horror upon him, he has no 
right to make others share it unconsciously. Fauchelevent may 
have lent me his name, but I have no right to use it. A name 
is a self. To be a false signature in flesh and blood, to be a 
living false key, to enter among honest folk by picking their 
lock, never to look, but always to squint, to be intern^ly in- 
famous, — ^no ! no ! no ! no ! It is better to suffer, bleed, weep, 
tear one’s flesh with one’s nails, pass the nights writliing in 
agony, and gnaw one’s stomach* and soul. That is why I have 
come to tell you all this, voluntarily, as you remarked.’* 

He breathed painfully, and uttered this last remark, — 

“Formerly I stole a loaf in order to live; to-day I will 
not steal a name in order to live.” 

“ To live ! ” Marius interrupted, “ you do not require that 
name to live.” 

“ Ah ! I understand myself,” Jean Valjean replied, raising 
and drooping his head several times in succession. There 
was a silence ; both held their tongue, sunk as they were in 
a gulf of thought. Marius was sitting near a table, and sup- 
porting the comer of his mouth in one of his fingers. Jean 



LES MISERABLES 


497 


Valjean walked backwards and forwards ; he stopped before 
a glass and remained motionless. Then, as if answering some 
internal reasoning, ho said, as he looked in this glass, in which 
he did not see himself : “ While at present I am relieved.” 

He began walking again, and went to the other end of the 
room. At the moment when he turned ho perceived that 
Marius was watching his walk, and ho said to him, with an 
indescribable accent, — 

“ I drag m^ leg a little. You understand why now.” 

Then he turned j^ound full to Marius. 

And now, sir, imagine tliis. I have said nothing. I 
have remained Monsieur Fauchelevent. I have taken my 
place in your house. I am one of your family. At night we go 
to the play, all three, I accompany Madame Pontmercy to the 
Tuileries and to the Place Royale ; we are together, and you 
believe me your equal. One fine day I am here, you are there. 
We are talking and laughing, and you hear a voice cry this 
name, — Jean Valjean! and then that fearful hand, the police, 
issues from the shadow, and suddenly tears off my mask ! ” 

He was silent again. Marius had risen with a shudder, 
and Jean Valjean continued: “ What do you say to that? ” 

Marius’s silence replied, and Jean Valjean continued, — 

“ You see very well that I did right in not holding my 
tongue. Be happy, be in heaven, be the angel of an angel, 
be in the sunshine and content yourself with it, and do not 
trouble yourself as to the way in which a poor condemned 
man opens his heart and does his duty ; you have a wretched 
man before you, sir.” 

Miarius slowly crossed the room, and when he was by Jean 
Valj can’s side offered him hi^ band. But Marius was com- 
pelled to take this hand which did not offer itself. Jean 
Valjean let him do so, and it seemed to Marius that he was 
pressing a hand of marble. 

“ My grandfather has friends,” said Marius. “ I will ob- 
tain your pardon.” 

“ It is useless,” Jean Valjean replied ; ” I am supposed to 
be dead, and that is sufficient. The dead are not subjected 
to surveillance, and are supposed to rot quietly. Death is 
the same thing as pardon.” 

And liberating the hand which Marius held, he added with 
a sort of inexorable dignity, — 



498 


LES MISERABLES 


“ Moreover, duty, my duty, is the friend to whom I have 
recourse, and I only need one pardon, that of my conscience.” 

At this moment the door opened gently at the other end of 
the drawing-room, and CJosette’s head appeared in the crevice. 
Only her sweet face was visible. Her hair was in admirable 
confusion, and her eyelids were still swollen with sle'ep. She 
made the movement of a bird thrusting its head out of the nest, 
looked first at her husband, then at Jean Valjean, and cried to 
them laughingly — ^it looked like a smile issuing from a rose, — 
“I will bet that you are talking politics. How stupid 
that is, instead of being with me ! ” Jean Valjean start^ 
“ Cosette,” Marius stammered, and ha stopped. They 
looked like two culprits ; Cosette, radiant, continued to look 
at them both, and there were in her eyes gleams of Paradise. 

“ I have caught you in the act,” Cosette said, “ I just heard 
through this, Father Fauchelevent saying, Conscience, doing 
one’s duty. That is politics, and I will have none of it. People 
must not talk politics on the very next day, it is not right.” 

“ You are mistaken, Cosette,” Marius replied, “ we are 
talking of business. We are talking about the best way of 
investing your six hundred thousand francs.” 

“ I will come in,” Cosette interrupted ; “ though you do 
not seem to want me here ? ” 

Jean Valjean did not utter a word, and Cosette turned to him. 
“ In the first place, father, I insist on your coming and 
kissing me. What do you mean by saying nothing, instead 
of taking my part? Did you ever see a father like that? 
Come and kiss me at once.” 

Then she ofiered her forehead to Jean Valjean, who moved 
a step towards her. All at oifce Cosette recoiled. 

“ Father, you are pale, does your arm pain you ? ** 

‘*It is cured,” said Jean Valjean. 

” Have you slept badly ? ” 

“ No.” 

“ Are you sad ? ” 

“ No.” 

“ Kiss me. If you are well, if you sleep soundly, if you 
are happy, I will not scold you.” 

And she again offered him her forehead, and Jean Valjean 
set a kiss on this forehead, upon which there was a heavenly 
reflection. 



LES MISERABLE3 


499 


Smilo.” 

Jean Vuljoan obeyed, but it was the smile of a ghost. 

And now, Cosette continued, as she smoothed a crease in 
her dressing-gown, with a little triumphant pout, “I remain.” 

“No,” Marius replied, imploringly, “we have somethin^r 
to finish.'* 

“ Ah, you are putting on your man’s voice, air ; very good, 
I will go. You did not support me, father ; and so you, my 
hard husband,* and you, my dear papa, are tyrants. I shall 
go and tell grandpapa.” 

And she left the room, but two seconds after the door 
opened again, her fresh, rosy face passed once again between the 
two folding doors, and she cried to them : “lam very angry.” 

The door closed, and darkness returned. It was like a 
straggling sunbeam, which, without suspecting it, had sud- 
denly traversed the night. Marius assured himself that the 
door was really closed. 

“ Poor Cosette,” he muttered, “ when she learns — ” 

At these words Jean Valjean trembled all over, and he 
fixed his haggard eyes on Marius. 

“ Cosette I oh, yes, it is true. You will tell Cosette about 
it. Stay, I did not think of that. A man has strength for one 
thing, but not for another. I implore you, sir, give me your 
sacred word, do not tell her. A convict, what ! you would bo 
obliged to explain to her ; tell her it is a man who has been to 
the galleys. She saw the chain-gang once ; oh, my God I ” 

He sank into a chair and buried his face in his hands ; it 
could not be heard, but from the heaving of his shoulders it 
could be seen that he was weeping. They were silent tears, 
terrible tears. A species of 'convulsion seized on him, ho 
threw himself back in the chair, letting his arms hang, and 
displaying to Marius his face bathed in tears, and Marius 
heard him mutter so low that his voice seemed to come from 
a bottomless abyss, “ Oh ! I would like to die.” 

“ Be at your ease,” Marius said, “ I will keep your secret 
to myself.” 

And, less affected than perhaps he ought to have been, 
but compelled for more than an hour to listen to unexpected 
horrors, gradually seeing a convict taking M. Fauchelevent’s 

E lace, gradually overcome by this moumfid reality, and led 
y the natural state of the situation to notice the gap whioh 



500 


LES MISERABLES 


had formed, between himself and this man, Marius added, — 
“ It is impossible for me not to say a word about the trust 
money which you have so faithfully given up. That is an 
act of probity, and it is but fair that a reward should be given 
you ; fix the sum yourself, and it shall be paid you. Do not 
fear to fix it very high.” * 

“I thank you, sir,” Jean Valjean replied gently. 

He remained pensive for a moment, mechanically passing 
the end of his fore-finger over his thumb-nail, ismd then raised 
his voice — ^ 

“ All is nearly finished ; there is only one thing left me.” 
Jean Valjean had a species of supreme agitation, and voice- 
lessly, almost breathlessly, he stammered, rather than said, — 
“ Now that you know, do you, sir, who are the master, 
believe that I ought not to see Cosette again ? ” 

“ I believe that it would be better,” Marius replied, coldly. 
“I will not see her again,” Jean Valjean murmured. And 
he walked towards the door; he placed his hand upon the 
handle, the door opened, Jean Valjean was going to pass out, 
when he suddenly closed it again, then opened the door again 
and returned to Marius. Ho was no longer pale, but livid, 
and in his eyes was a sort of tragic flame, instead of tears. 
His voice had grown strangely calm again. 

“ Stay, sir,” he said, ” if you like I will come to see her, 
for I assure you that I desire it greatly. If I had not longed 
to see Cosette, I should not have made you the confession I 
have done, but have gone away ; but wishing to remain at the 
spot where Cosette is, and continue to see her, I was obliged 
to tell you everything honestly. If you have no objection, I 
will come and see Cosette evely now and then, but not too 
often, and I will not remain long. Really, sir, I should like 
to see Cosette a little, but as rarely as you please. And then, 
again, we must be careful, and if I did not come at all it would 
have a bad effect, and appear singular.” 

“ You can come every evening,” said Marius, “ and Cosette 
win expect you.” 

“ You are kind, sir,” said Jean Valjean. 

Marius bowed to Jean Valjean, happiness accompamed 
despair to the door, and these two men parted. 

Marius was overwhelmed ; the sort of estrangement which he 
had ever felt for the man with whom he saw Cosette was hence- 



LES MISERABLES 601 

forth, explained. This M. Fauchelevent was Jean Valjean, the 
convict. To find suddenly such a secret in the midst of his hap- 
piness was like discovering a scorpion in a turtle-dove’s 
nest. 

The honest restoration of the trust-money and the probity 
of the co&amp;fession were good, and formed as it were a break in 
the cloud ; but then the cloud became black again. However 
confused Marius’s reminiscences might bo, some shadows still 
returned to him. This man was at the barricade, and did 
not fight, what did, to want there ? Before this question a 
spectre rose, and gave the answer, Javert, Marius perfectly 
remembered now the mournful vision of Jean Valjean drag- 
ging the bound Javert out of the barricade, and heard again 
behind the angle of the little Mondetonr Lane the frightful 
pistol-shot. There was, probably, a hatred between this spy 
and this galley-slave, and one annoyed the other. Jean Val- 
jean went to the barricade to revenge himself, ho arrived late, 
and was probably aware that Javert was a prisoner there. 
Jean Valjean had killed Javert, or, at least, that seemed 
evident. How was it that the existence of Jean Valjean had 
80 long elbowed that of Cosetto ? Who could have attached 
the lamb to the wolf, and, even more incomprehensible still, 
the wolf to the lamb ? for the wolf loved the lamb, the fero- 
cious being adored the weak being, and for nine years the 
angel had leant on the monster for support. The childhood 
and maidenhood of Cosette and her virgin growth towards 
life and light had been protected by this deformed devotion. 

Jean Valjean had laboured on Cosette, and had to some 
extent formed her mind, that was incontestable. Well, what 
then ? The workman was hdriible, but the work was ad- 
mirable, and God produces his miracles os he thinks proper. 
Ho had constructed that charming Cosette, and employed 
Jean Valjean on the job, and it had pleased him to choose 
this strange assistant. He adored Cosette, he possessed 
Cosette ; Cosette was splendidly pure, and that was sufficient 
for him. Jean Valj can’s personal affairs in no way concerned 
him, and in bending down over the fatal shadow of this 
wretched man he clung to his solemn declaration, 1 aim nothing 
to Cosette ; ten years ago I did not know that she existed. But 
in whatever circle of ideas Manus might turn, he always 
came back to a certain horror of Jean Valjean. He was a con- 



502 


LES MISERABLES 


vict, that is to say, a being who has not even a place on the 
social ladder, being beneath the lowest rung. 

On the morrow, at night-fall, Jean Valjean tapped at the 
gateway of the Gillenormand mansion, and it was Basque 
who received him. Basque was in the yard at the appointed 
time, as if he had had his orders. ' 

“ Monsieur le Baron has instructed me to ask you, sir, 
whether you wish to go up-stairs or stay down here ? ” 

“ Stay down here,” Jean Valjean replied. . 

Basque, who, however, was perfectly respectful in his 
manner, opened the door of the ground-floor room, and said, 
” I will go and inform her ladyship.” The room which Jean 
Valjean entered was a damp, arched basement room, employed 
as a cellar at times, looking out on the street, with a floor- 
ing of red tiles, and badly lighted by an iron-barred window. 
The wall, covered with a yellow-ochre wash, crumbled off in 
large patches ; at the end was a maiitel-picce of paneled black 
wood, with a narrow shelf, and a fire was lighted in it, which 
indicated that Jean Val jean’s reply remain down here had been 
calculated on. Two chairs were placed, one in each chimney- 
corner, and between the chairs was spread, in guise of carpet, 
an old bed-room rug, which displayed more cord than wool. 
The room was illumined by the flickering of the fire, and the 
twilight through the window. Jean Valjean was fatigued, 
for several days he had not eaten or slept, and he fell into 
one of the arm-chairs. Basque returned, placed a lighted 
candle on the mantel-piece, and withdrew. Jean Valjean, 
who was sitting with hanging head, did not notice either 
Basque or the candle, till all at once he started up, for Co- 
sette was behind him : he had '‘not seen her come in, but he 
felt that she was doing so. He turned round and contem- 
plated her ; she was adorably lovely. “ Well, father,” Cosette 
exclaimed, “ I knew that you were singular, but I could never 
have expected this. What an idea ! Marius told me that 
it was your wish to see me here.” 

•‘Yes, it is.” 

” I expected that answer, aifd I warn you that I am going 
to have a scene with you. Let us begin with the beginning : 
kiss me, father.” 

She offered her cheek, but Jean Valjean remained motion- 
less. 



603 


LES MISERABLES 

“ Things are growing serious,” said Cosette. What have 
I done to you ? I am offended, and you must make it up 
with me. Come, go with me to the drawing-room. At once.’^ 
“ Impossible.” 

Cosette here lost a little ground ; she ceased to order, and 
began questioning. 

“ But why ? And you choose the ugliest room in the house 
to see me in. It is horrible here.” 

“ You know, Cosette — ” 

Jean Valjean broke off: You know, madamo, that I am 
peculiar, and have^y fancies.” 

“ Madame-*^ow know — more novelties ; what docs this 
all mean ? ” 

Jean Valjean gave her that heart-broken smile to which 
he sometimes had recourse. 

** You wished to be a lady, and are one.” 

“ Not for you, father.” 

“ Do not call me father.” 

« What ? ” 

” Call me Monsieur Jean, or Jean, if you like.” 

** You are no longer father ? I am no longer Cosette ? 
Monsieur Jean ? Why, what does it mean ? These are 
revolutions. What has happened ? Look me in the face, 
if you can. And you will not live with us ! and you will not 
accept our bed-room ! What have I done to offend you ! Oh, 
what have I done ? There must be something.” 

“ Nothing.” 

” In that case then ? ” 

“All is as usual.” 

“ Why do you change your.name ? ” 

** You have changed yours.” 

He smiled the same smile again, and added, “ Since you 
are Madame Pontmercy, I may fairly be Monsieur Jean.” 

“ I do not understand anything, and all this is idiotic. I 
"Vill ask my husband’s leave for you to be Monsieur Jean, and 
I hope that he will not consent. You cause me great sorrow, 
and you have no right to be naughty, for you are so good.” 

As he made no reply, she seized both his hands eagerly, 
and with an irresistible movement raising them to her face 
she pressed them against her neck, under her chin, which is a 
profound sign of affection. 



604 


LES MISERABLES 


“ Oh,” she said, ” be kind to me.” 

He removed her hands, — 

“ You no longer want a father, as you have a husband.” 

“ You are angry with me for being happy, is that it ? ” 

Simplicity sometimes penetrates unconsciously very deep, 
and this question, simple for Cosette, was profound for Jean 
Valjean. Jean Valjean turned pale, he remained for a moment 
without answering, and then murmured with an indescribable 
accent, and speaking to himself, — 

“ Her happiness was the object of my life, and at present 
God may order my departure. Cosette, thou art happy, and 
my course is run.” 

“ Ah ! you said thou to me,” Cosette exclaimed, and leaped 
on his neck. 

Jean Valjean wildly strained her to his heart, for he felt 
as if he were almost taking her back again. 

“ Thank you, father,” Cosette said to him. 

The excitement was getting too painful for Jean Valjean ; he 
gently withdrew himself fromiCosette’sarms, and tootiip his hat. 

“ Well ? ” said Cosette. 

Jean Valjean replied : ” I am going to leave you, Madame, 
as you will be missed.” 

And on the threshold he added, — 

” I said to you thou ; tell your husband that it shall not 
happen again. Forgive me.” 

Jean Valjean left Cosette stupefied by this enigmatical 
leave-taking. 

Several weeks passed. A new life gradually seized on 
Cosette; the relations which marriage creates, visits^, the 
management of the household, and pleasures, that great 
business. The pleasures of Cosette were not costly, tliey 
consisted in only one, being with Marius. Jean Valjean came 
daily. The Madame and the Monsieur Jean, however, made 
him different to Cosette, and the care he had himself taken 
to detach himself from her succeeded. She was more and^ 
more gay, and less and less affectionate, and yet she loved 
him dearly still, and he felt it. One day she suddenly said 
to him, ” You were my father, you are no longer my father ; 
you were my uncle, you are no longer my uncle ; you were 
Monsieur Fauchelevent, and are now Jean. Who are you 
then ? I do not like all this. If 1 did not know you to be so 



LES MISEBABI.es 605 

good, I should be afraid of 7011.” He stiU lived in the Baa 
ae 1 Homme Arm6, as he could not resolve to remove from 
the quarter m which Cosette lived. At first he only stayed 
a few imnutes with Cosette, and then went away, but by 
degrees he ^ew into the habit of making his visits longer. It 
might be tfaid that he took advantage of the lengthening days ; 
he arrived sooner and went away later. One day, the word 
lather slipped over Cosette’s lips, and a gleam of joy lit up Jean 
Valjcan’s old solemn face, but he chided her ; “ Say Jean.” 

Ah, that is tru&lt;^” she replied, with a burst of laughter. 

Monsieur Jean.” ^ 

“ That is right,” ho said, and he turned away that she 
might not see the tears in his eyes. 

Jean Valjean noticed ere long that the young couple led 
a very close life, and was annoyed at it. Marius’s economy 
was strict, and that word had its absolute meaning with Jeau 
Valjean ; he hazarded a question. 

“ Why do you not keep a carriage ? A little coupe would 
not cost you more than five hundred francs a month, and you 
are rich.” 

“ I do not know,” Cosette answered. 

” It is the same with Toussaint,” Jeau Valjean continued ; 
” she has lelt, and you have engaged no one in her place. 
Why not ? ” 

“ Nicolette is sufficient.” 

“ But you must want a lady’s maid ? ” 

“ Have I not Marius ? ” 

“ You ought to have a house of your own, servants of your 
own, a carriage, and a box at the opera. Nothing is too good 
foB you. Then why not take •advantage of the fact of your 
being rich ? Wealth adds to happiness.” 

Cosette made no reply. Jean Valj can’s visits did not 
grow shorter, on the contrary, for when it is the heart that is 
flipping, a man does not stop on the incline. When Jean 
Valjean wished to prolong his visit and make the hour be 
forgotten, he sung the praises of Marius, he found him hand- 
some, noble, brave, witty, eloquent, and good. Cosette added 
to the praise, and Jean Valjean began again. It was an 
inexhaustible subject, and there were volumes in the six letters 
composing Marius’s name. In this way Jean Valjean man- 
aged to stop for along time, for it was so sweet to see Cosette 



606 


LES MISERABLES 


and foi^et by ber side. It was a dressing for his wound. 
It frequently happened that Basque would come and say 
twice, — “ M. Gillenormand has sent me to remind Madame 
la Baronne that dinner is waiting.” On those days Jean 
Valjean would return home very thoughtful. One day he 
remained longer than usual, and the next noticed' there was 
no fire in the grate. “ Stay,” he thought, “ no fire ? ” — and 
he gave himself this explanation — “ It is very simple ; we are 
in April, and the cold weather has passed.” .• 

Good gracious I how cold it is here It-” Cosette exclaimed 
as she came in. 

“ Oh no,” said Jean Valjean. 

“ Then it was you who told Basque not to light a fire ? ” 

” Yes, we shall have May here directly.” 

“ But fires keep on till June ; in this cellar there ought 
to be one all the year round.” 

” I thought it was unnecessary.” 

” That is just like one of your ideas,” Cosette remarked. 

The next day there was a fire but the two chairs were 
placed at the other end of the room, near the door. “ What 
is the meaning of that ? ” Jean Valjean thought ; he fetched 
the chairs and placed them in their usual place near the chim- 
ney. This rekindled fire, however, encouraged him, and he 
made the conversation last even longer than usual. As he 
rose to leave Cosette remarked to him, — 

” My husband said a funny thing to me yesterday.” 

“What was it?” 

“ He said to me, ‘ Cosette, we have thirty thousand franca 
a year, — twenty-seven of yours, and three that my grand- 
father allows me.’ I replied, That makes thirty ; * and he 
continued, ‘ Would you have the courage to live on the three 
thousand ? * I answered, ‘ Yea, on nothing, provided that it 
be with you ; ’ and then I asked him, ‘ Why did you say that 
to me ? ’ He replied, ‘ I merely wished to know.’ ” 

Jean Valjean had not a word to say. Cosette probably 
expected some explanation from him, but he listened to her 
in a sullen silence. He went back to the Rue de THomme 
Arme, and was so profoundly abstracted that, instead of en- 
tering his own house, he went into the next one. It was not 
till he had gone up nearly two flights of stairs that he noticed 
his mistake, and came down again. His mind was crammed 



LES MISERABLES 


607 


with conjectures : it was evident that Marius entertained 
doubts as to the origin of the six hundred thousand francs, 
that ho feared some impure source; he might even, who 
knew ? have discovered that this money came from him, Jean 
Valjean ; that he hesitated to touch this suspicious fortune, and 
was repugnant to use it as his own, preferring that Cosette 
and he should remain poor rather than be rich with dubious 
wealth. Moreover, Jean Valjean was beginning to feel him- 
self shown to the door. On the following day he had a species 
of shock on entering the basement room ; the fauteuils had 
disappeared, /tud there was not even a seat of any sort. 

“ Dear ifie, no chairs,” Cosette exclaimed on entering, 

where are they ? ” 

*‘I’told Basque to remove them. I shall only remain a 
few minutes to-day.” 

“ Few or many, that is no reason for standing.” 

Jean Valjean had not another word to say, and Cosette 
shrugged her shoulders. 

“ Have the chairs removed ! The other day you ordered 
the fire to be left off 1 How singular you are ! ” 

“ Good-bye,” Jean Valjean murmured. 

He did not say “ (Jood-bye, Cosette,” but he had not the 
strength to say “ Good-bye, Madame.” 

He went away, crushed, for this time he had compre- 
hended. The next day ho did not come, and Cosette did not 
remark this till the evening. 

” Dear me,” she said, “ Monsieur Jean did not come to-day.” 

She felt a slight pang at the heart, but she scarce noticed 
it, as she was at once distracted by a kiss from Marius. The 
next day he did not come eitlier. Cosette paid no attention 
to this, slept at night as usual, and only thought of it when 
she woke ; she was so happy ! She very soon sent Nicolette 
to Monsieur Jean’s to see whether ho were ill, and why he 
had not come to see her on the previous day, and Nicolette 
brought back Monsieur Jean’s answer. “ He was not ill, but 
was busy, and would come soon, so soon as he could. But ho 
was going to make a little journey, and Madame would remember 
that he was accustomed to do so every now and then. She 
need not feel at all alarmed, or trouble herself about him.” 

Jean Valjean, however, still went daily to the Rue des 
Filles du Calvaire, and gazed with longing eyes at the house 



608 


LES MISEBABLES 


in which Cosette dwelt. But gradually his health began to 
decline, and he was no longer able to allow himself this gra- 
tification. One day ho went down his staircase, took three 
steps in the street, sat down upon a post, the same one on 
which Gavroche had found him sitting in thought on the 
night of June 6th ; he stayed there a few minutes,^ and then 
went up again. This was the last oscillation of the pendulum ; 
the next day he did not leave his room ; the next to that he did 
not leave bis bed. The porter’s wife, who prepared his poor 
meals for him, some cabbage or a few potatoes and a little 
bacon, looked at the brown earthenware plate and exclaimed,— 

“ Why, poor dear man, you ate nothing yesterday.” 

“Yes, I did,” Jean Valjean answered. 

“ The plate is quite full.” 

“ Look at the water jug : it is empty.” 

“ That proves you have drunk, but does not prove that 
you have eaten.” 

“Well,” said Jean Valjean, “suppose that I only felt 
hungry for water ? ” 

“ That is called thirst, and if a man does not eat at the 
same time it is called fever.” 

Jean Valjean never saw any other human creature but 
this good woman. During the time when he still went out 
he had bought at a brazier’s h)r a few sous a small copper 
crucifix, which he suspended from a nail opposite his bed. 
A week passed thus, and Jean Valjean still remained in bed. 
The porter’s wife said to her husband, “ The old gentleman 
up-stairs does not get up, he does not eat, and he will not 
Ifikst long. He has a sorrow, and no one will get it out of 
my head but that his daughter has made a bad match. 

One evening Jean Valjean had a difficulty in rising on his 
elbow ; he took hold of his wrist and could not find his pulse ; 
his breathing was short, and stopped every now and then, and 
he perceived that he was weaker than he had ever yet been. ^ 
Then, doubtless under the pressure of some supreme pre-occu- 
pation, he made an efiort, sat up, and dressed himself. He put 
on his old workman’s clothes ; for, as he no longer went out, 
he had returned to them and preferred them. He was com- 
pelled to pause several times while dressing himself ; and the 
perspiration poured o£E his forehead, merely through the effort 
of putting on his jacket. He opened the valise, and took out 



LES MISERABLES 509 

Cosette’s clothing, which he spread on his bed. The bishop’s 
candlesticks were at their place on the mantelpiece ; ho took 
two wax candles out of a drawer and put them up, and then, 
though it was broad summer daylight, he lit them. Each step 
he took in going from one article of furniture to another ex- 
hausted Mm, and he was obliged to sit down. 

One of the chairs on which he sank was placed near the 
mirror, so fatal for him, so providential for Marius, in which ho 
had read Cosette’s reversed writing on the blotting-book. lie 
saw himself in thisjmirror, and could not recognize himself. 
What he had on his forehead was no longer the wrinkle of age, 
but the mysterious mark of death. BUs cheeks were flaccid, 
the two corners of his mouth drooped as in that mask which 
the ancients sculptured on the tomb : he looked at space re- 
proachfully, and he resembled one of those tragic beings who 
nave cause to complain of some one. Night had set in, and he 
with difficulty dragged a table and the old easy-chair to the 
chimney, and laid on the table pen, ink, and paper. This done 
ho fainted away, and when he regained his senses ho was 
thirsty ; as he could not lift the water-jar, he bent down with 
an effort and drank a mouthful. Then he turned to the bed, 
and, still seated, for ho was unable to stand, he gazed at the 
little black dress and all those dear objects. All at once ho 
shuddered, and felt that the cold had struck him. He leant his 
elbows on the table which the bishop’s candlesticks illumined 
and took up the pen. He wiped his forehead from time to time, 
and his hand trembled as he wrote the few following lines : 

“ Cosette, I bless you. I am about to explain to you. Your 
husband did right in making me understand that I ought to go 
away ; still, ho was slightly in eftror as to what he believed, but 
he acted rightly. Ho is a worthy man, and love him dearly 
when I am gone from you. Monsieur Pontmercy, always love 
my beloved child. Cosette, this paper will be found, this is 
&gt;what I wish to say to you ; you shall see the figures iiE I have 
the strength to remember them, but listen to me, the money is 
really yours, This is the whole affair ; white jet comes from 
Norway, black jet comes from England, and black beads come 
from Germany. Jet is lighter, more valuable, and dearer, but 
imitations can be made in France as well as in Germany. You 
must have a small anvil two inches square, and a spirit lamp to 
soften the wax. The wax us^ to be made with resin and 



610 


LES MISEBABLES 


Bmoke*bIack, and costa four francs the pound, but I hit on the 
idea of maldng it of shell-lac and turpentine. It only costa 
thirty sous, and is much better. The rings are made of violet 
glass fastened by means of the wax on a small black iron wire. 
The glass must be violet for iron ornaments, and black for gilt 
ornaments. Spain buys large quantities, it is the country of 
jet—” 

Here he stopped, the pen slipped from his fingers, he burst 
into one of those despairing sobs which rose at .times from the 
depths of his being ; the poor man took head between his 
hands and thought. 

“ Oh ! ” he exclaimed internally (lamentable cries heard by 
6od alone), “ it is all over. I shall never see her again ; it is 
a smile which flashed across me. Oh, it is all over, for ever. 

I am all alone, my God ! my God ! I shall see her no more.” 

At this moment there was a knock at his door. 

CHAPTER XXVI 

That same evening, as Marius was leaving the dinner-table 
to withdraw to his study, Basque handed him a letter, saying, 

“ The person who wrote the letter is in the anteroom.” Ma- 
rius took it, and it smelt of tobacco. Nothing arouses a 
recollection so much as a smell, and Marius recognized the 
tobacco. He looked at the address, To Monsieur le Baron 
Pommerd, At his house. The recognized tobacco made him 
recognize the hand-writing. The Jondrette garret rose again 
before him. Hence — strange blow of accident ! — one of the 
two trails which he had so long sought, the one for which he 
had latterly made so many efforts and believed lost for ever, 
came to offer itself voluntarily to him. He eagerly opened tlie 
letter and read : — 

“ Monsieur le Baron, 

“ If the Supreme Being had endowed me with talents,^ 
I might have been Baron Thdnard, member of the Institute 
(academy of cienses), but I am not so, I merely bear the same 
name with him, and shall be happy if this reminisence recom- 
mends me to the excelense of your kindness. The benefits 
with which you may honour me will be reciprocal, for 1 am in 
possession of a secret conseming an individual. This individual 
consems you. I hold ^the secret at your disposal, as I desire 



LES MISERABLES ’ 


511 


to have the honour of being huseful to you. I will give you 
the simple means for expeling from your honourable family this 
individual who has no right in it, Madam la Barroniio being of 
high birth. The sanctuary of virtue could no longer coabit 
with crime without abdicating. 

“ I awatt in the anteroom Ae order of Monsieur le Baron: 

“ Respectfully.” 

The letter was signed “Thenard.” This signature was 
not false, but pnly slightly abridged. However, the bombast 
and the orthography completed the revelation, tlie certificate 
of origin was perfect, and no doubt was possible. Marius’s emo- 
tion was profound ; and after the movement of surprise he had 
a movement of happiness. Let him now find the other man ho 
sought, the man who had saved him, Marius, and he would have 
nothing more to desire. He opened a drawer in his bureau, took 
out several bank-notes, which he put into his pocket, closed 
the bureau again, and rang. Basque opened the door partly. 

“Show the man in,” said Marius. 

Basque announced : “ M. Thenard.” 

A man came in, and it was a fresh surprise for Marius, as 
the man he now saw was a perfect stranger to him. This 
man, who was old, by the way, had a large nose, his chin in 
his cravat, green spectacles, with a double shade of green silk 
over his eyes, and his hair smoothed down and flattened on his 
forehead over his eyebrows, like the wig of English coachmen 
of high life. His hair was grey. He was dressed in black 
from head to foot, a very seedy but clean black, and a bunch 
of seals, emerging from his fob, led to the supposition that he 
had a watch. He hold an old hat in his hand, walked bent, 
apd the curve in his back augmented the depth of his bow ; and 
it could not but strike most at the first glance that hia coat, 
too large, though carefully buttoned, had not been made for him. 

Marius’ disappointment, on seeing a different man from the 
^one whom he expected enter, turned into disgust with the new 
comer. He examined him from head to foot, while the per- 
sonage was giving him an exaggerated bow and asked him 
curtly, “ What do you want ? ” 

“ Monsieur le Baron, deign to listen to me. There is in 
America, in a country near Panama, a village called La Joya, 
and this village is composed of a single house. A large square 
house three storeys high, built of brick dried in the sun, each 



616 


LES MISERABLES 


Valjean ; as for the other fact, you can tell me no more than I 
know either. Jean Valjean killed Inspector Javert with a pis- 
tol-shot, and I, who am speaking to you, was present.” 

Th6nardicr gave Marius the sovereign glance of a beaten 
man who sets his hand again on the victory, and has regained 
in a minute all the ground he had lost. But the smile at 
once returned, for the inferior, when in presence of his su- 
perior, must keep Lis triumph to himself, and Thenardicr 
confined himself to saying to Marius, — 

“Monsieur le Baron, we are on the w^ong track.” 

“ What ! ” Marius replied, “ do you dispute it ? They 
arc facts.” 

“ The confidence with which Monsieur le Baron honours 
me makes it my duty to tell him so. Before all, truth and 
justice, and I do not like to see people accused wrongfully. 
Monsieur le Baron, Jean Valjean did not rob M. Madeleine, and 
Jean Valjean did not kill Javert. And that for two reasons.” 

“ What are they ? apeak ? ” 

“ The first is this : he did not rob M. Madeleine, because 
Jean Valjean himself is M. Madeleine.” 

“ What nonsense are you talking ? ” 

“ And this is the second : he did not assassinate Javert, 
because Javert committed suicide.” 

“ Prove it, prove it,” Marius cried wildly. 

Thenardier repeated slowly, scanning his sentence after 
the fashion of an ancient Alexandrian, — 

“ Police- Agent- Javert- was-foimd- drowned- un- der -a- boat- 
at-Pont-au-Change.” 

“ But prove it then.” 

Thenardier drew from his side-pocket a large grey paper 
parcel, which seemed to contain folded papers of various sizes. 

“ Monsieur le Baron, I wished to know Jean Valjean tho- 
roughly on your behalf. I say that Jean Valjean and Mad- 
eleine are the same, and I say that Javert had no other 
assassin but Javert, and when I say this, 1 have the proofs. 

While speaking, Th6nardier extracted from the parcel 
two newspapers, yellow, faded, and tremendously saturated 
with tobacco. One of these two papers, broken in all the folds, 
and falling in square rags, seemed much older than the other. 

It was a number of the Tkarpem Blano, for January 26th, 
1823, of which the exact text was given at p. 128, estab- 



LES MISERABLES 


517 

lisliing the identity of M. Madeleine and Jean Valjean. 
The other, a Moniteur^ of June 15th, 1832, announced the 
suicide of Javert, adding that it was found from a verbal 
report made by Javert to the Prefet, that ho had been 
made prisoner at the barricade of tlie Rue de la Chanvrerie, 
and owed his life to the magnanimity of an insurgent, who, 
when holding him under hi^ pistol, instead of blowing out 
his brains, fired in the air. Marius read ; there was evidence, 
a certain date, irrefragable proof, for these two papers had 
not been printed expressly to support Th^nardier’s sitite- 
ment, and the note pulblishcd in the Moniteur was of&amp;cially 
communicated by the Prefecture of Police. Marius could 
no longer doubt, the cashier’s information was false, and 
he was himself mistaken. Jean Valjean, suddenly growing 
taller, issued from the cloud, and Marius could not restrain 
a cry of joy. 

“ What, then, this poor fellow is an admirable man ! all 
this fortune is really his ! He is Madeleine, the providence 
of an entire town I he is Jean Valjean, the saviour of Javert I 
he is a hero ! he is a saint ! ” 

''He is not a saint, and he is not a hero,” said Thenar- 
dier, “ he is an asassin and a robber.” 

“ Are you alluding,” Marius continued, “ to that wretched 
theft committed forty years back, and expiated as is proved 
from those very papers, by a whole life of repentance, self- 
denial, and virtue ? ” 

" I say assassination and robbery, M. le Baron, and repeat 
^ that I am alluding to recent facts. What I have to reveal 
to you is perfectly unknown and unpublished, and you may 
perhaps find in it the source *of the fortune cleverly ofiered 
by Jean Valjean to Madame la Baroime. I say skilfully, for 
it would not be a stupid act, by a donation of that nature, to 
step into an honourable house, whose comforts he would 
•share, and at the same time hide the crime, bury his names, 
and create a family.” 

“ I could interrupt you here,” Marius observed, “ but 
go on.” 

“Monsieur le Baron, I will tell you all, leaving the re- 
ward to your generosity. You will say to me, ‘ Why not 
apply to Jean Valjean ? ’ I know that he has given up all 
his property in your favour, and I consider the combination 



518 


LES MISEBABLES 


ingenioua ; he would show me his empty hands, and as I want 
money for my voyage to La Joya, I prefer you, who have 
everything, to him, who has nothing. As 1 am rather fa- 
tigu^, permit me to take a chair.” 

Marius sat down, and made him a sign to do the same. 
Thenardier installed himself in an easy-chair, crossed his legs, 
threw himself into the attitude of men who are certain of 
what they are stating, and then began his narrative gravely : — 

“ Monsieur le Baron, on June 6th, 1832, about a year ago, 
and on the day of the riots, a man was ip the great sewer of 
Paris, at the point where the sewers fall into the Seine be- 
tween the Pont des Invalides and the Pont de Jena.” 

Marius hurriedly drew his chair closer to Thenardier’s. 
Thenardier noticed this movement, and continued with the 
slowness of an orator who holds his hearer, and feels his ad- 
versary quivering under his words : — 

“ This man, forced to hide himself, for reasons, however, 
unconnected with politics, had selected the sewer as his 
domicile, and had the key of it. It was, I repeat, June 6th, 
and about eight in the evening the man heard a noise in the 
sewer ; some one was walking in the darkness, and coming 
in his direction. As the outlet of the sewer was no great 
distance off, a little light which passed through enabled him 
to see the new-comer, and that he was carrying something 
on his back. He walked in a stooping posture ; and what 
he had on his shoulder was a corpse. A flagrant case of as- 
sassination, were there ever one ; as for the robbery, that is 
a matter of course, for no one kills a man gratis. This con- 
vict was going to throw the body into the river, and a fact 
worth notice is, that, before rfcaching the outlet, the convict 
was obliged to pass a frightful hole, in which he might have 
left the corpse; but the sewer-men who came to ofiect the 
repairs next day would have found the murdered man there, 
and that did not suit the assassin. Hence he preferred car-% 
rying the corpse across the slough, and his efforts must have 
been frightful ; 1 do not understand how he got out of it alive.” 

Marius’ chair came nearer, and Thenardier took advantage 
of it to draw a long breath ; then he continued : — 

Monsieur le Baron, a sewer is not the Champ de Mars ; 
and when two men are in it together they must meet. The 
domiciled man and the passer-by were compelled to bid each 



LE8 MISERABLES 


m 


other good evening, to their mutual regret. The pasacr-by 
said to the domiciled man, “ You sfie whil I have on my back. 
I must go out, you have the key, so give it to me' This convict 
was a man of terrible strength, and there was no chance of 
refusing him ; still the man who held the key parleyed, solely 
to gain Uirne. He examined the dead man, but could see no- 
thing, except that he was young, well dressed, had a rich 
look, and was quite disfigured with blood. While talking, 
he managed 4;o tear off, without the murderer perceiving it, a 
piece of the skirt ijf the victim’s coat, as a means of bringing 
the crime hpme to the criminal; after which he opened the 
grating, allowed the man with the load on his back to go out, 
locked the grating again, and ran away, not feeling at all de- 
sirous to be mixed up any further in the adventure, or to be 
present when the assassin threw the corpse iiito the river. 
Tho man who carried the corpse was Jean Valjean, the one 
who had the key is speaking to you at this moment, and the 
piece of coat-skirt 

Theuardier completed the sentence by drawing from his 
|)ockct and holding level with his eyes a ragged piece of black 
cloth, all covered with dark spots. Marius had risen, pale, 
scarce breathing, with his eye fixed on the black patch, and, 
without uttering a syllable, or without taking his eyes off the 
rag, he fell back, and, with his right hand extended behind 
him, felt for the key of a wall-cupboard near the man^cl-piece. 
He found this key, opened the cupboard, and thrust his hand 
into it without once taking his eyes off the rag which Thenar- 
dier displayed. In the mean while Theuardier continued, — 

‘‘Monsieur le Baron, I ^ve the strongest grounds for 
'•believing that the assassinal^d young man was a wealthy 
foreigner, drawn by Jean Valjean into a trap, and carrying 
an enormous sum about him.” 

“ I was the young man, and here is the coat ! ” cried 
Marius, as he threw on the floor an old blood-stained surtout. 
Then, taking the patch from Thenardier’s hands, he bent over 
tbe coat and put it in its place in the skirt ; the rent fitted* 
exactly, and the fragment completed the coat. Theuardier 
was petrified, and thought, “ I’m sold.” Marius drew himself 
up, shuddering, desperate, and radiant ; ho felt in his pocket, 
and walking furiously towards Theuardier, thrust almost into 
his face his hand full of five hundred and thousand franc notes. 



520 


LBS MISERABLES 


“ You are an infamous wretch ! a calumniator, and a vil- 
lain ! You came to accuse that man, and you have justifiGd 
him. And it is you who are the robber ! the . assassin ! I 
saw you, Thenardier Jondrette, at that den on the Boulevard 
de r Hopital. I know enough about you to send you to the 
galleys, and even further if I liked. There are a thousand 
francs, ruffian that you are ! ” 

And he threw a thousand-franc note at Thenardier. 

“ Ah, Jondrette — Thenardier, vile scoundrel, Jet this serve 
you as a lesson, you hawker of secrets, you dealer in myste- 
ries, you searcher in the darkness, villain, take these five 
hundred francs, and be off. Waterloo protects you.** 

“ Waterloo ! ” Thenardier growled, as he pocketed the 
five hundred francs. 

“ Yes, assassin ! you saved there the life of a colonel.” 
“ A general ! ** Thenardier said, raising his head. 

“ A colonel,” Marius repeated furiously, “ I would not 
give a farthing for a general. And you come here to commit 
an infamy ! I tell you that you have committed every crime ! 
Begone ! Ah, monster ! here are three thousand franca more. 
You will start to-morrow for America with your daughter, 
for your wife is dead, you abominable liar ! I will watch over 
your departure, bandit, and at the moment when you set sail, pay 
you twenty thousand francs. Go and get hanged elsewhere.’* 

“ Monsieur le Baron,” Thenardier answered, bowing to 
the ground, “accept my eternal gratitude.” 

And Thenardier left the room, understanding nothing of 
all this, but stupefied and ravished by this sweet crushing 
under bags of gold, and this lightning flashing over his head 
in the shape of bank-notes. TVo days after the events we" 
have just recorded he started for America, under a false name, 
with his daughter Azelma, and provided with an order on a 
New York banker, for twenty thousand francs. The moral 
misery of Thenardier, the spoiled bourgeois, was irremediable, 
and he was in America what he had been in Europe. With 
Marius’s money he turned slave-dealer. 

So soon as Thenardier had departed, Marius ran into the 
garden where Gosette was still walking. 

“ Gosette, Gosette,” he cried, “ come quickly, let us be off. 
Basque, a hackney-coach. Gosette, come ! oh heavens ! it 
was be who saved my life ! let us not lose a minute ! 



LES MI8EBABLES 


621 


Cosctte thought him mad, and obeyed. Ho could not 
breathe, and laid his hand on his heart to check its beating. 

Oh, Cosette,” he said, “I am a scoundrel.** Marius was 
amazed, for an extraordinary virtue appeared to him, supremo 
and gentle, and humble in its immensity, and the convict was 
transfiguted. In an instant the hackney-coach was at the 
gate. Marius helped Cosctte in, and followed her. 

‘‘ Driver,” he cried, “ No. 7, Rue de THomme Arme.*^ 

“ Oh, how glad I am,” said Cosette, “ we are going to see him.” 

“ Your father, Gosette ! your father more than ever. C/o- 
sette, I see ij; all. You told me that you never received th&lt;i 
letter I sent you by Gavfoche, It must have fallen into his 
hands, and he came to the barricade to save me. He drew 
me out of that gulf to give me to you ; he carried me on liis 
back through that frightful sewer. Just imagine that there 
was a horrible pit, in which a man could be drowned a hun- 
dred times, drowned in mud, Cosette ; and he carried me 
through it. We are going to bring him back with us, and 
whether he is willing or not he shall never leave us again. I 
only hope we shall find him ! I will spend the rest of my life in 
revering him. Yes, it must have been so, Cosette, and Gavroche 
must have given him my letter. That explains everything.” 

The hackney-coach soon reached the Rue do 1’ Homme 
Arme. At the knock he heard at his door Jean Valjean 
turned round. 

“Come in,*’ he said feebly. 

The door opened, and Cosette and Marius appeared. Co- 
sette rushed into the room. Marius remained on the threshold, 
leaning against the door-pos^ 

• “ Cosette ! ” said Jean Val^an, and he sat up in his chair, 
with his arms outstretched and opened, haggard, livid, and 
sinister, but with an immense joy in his eyes. Cosette, suf- 
focated with emotion, fell on Jean Valjean’s breast. 

“ Father,” she said. 

Jean Valjean, utterly overcome, stammered, “ Cosette ! 
slie — you — ^Madame ! it is you ! oh, my God ! ” 

Marius, drooping his eyelids to keep his tears from flow- 
ing, advanced a step, and muttered between his lips, which 
were convulsively clenched to stop his sobs, ” Father ! ’ 

“ And you, too, you forgive me,” said Jean Valjean. 

Marius could not find a word to say, and Jean Valjean 



522 


LES MISERABLES 


added, “ Thank you.” Cosette took off her shawl, and threw 
her bonnet on the bed, and sitting down on the old man’s 
knees, she parted his grey hair with an adorable movement, 
and kissed his forehead. Jean Valjean, who was wandering, 
let her do so. 

“ How foolish a man can be ! ” he said. “ I fancied that 
I should not sec her again. Just imagine, Monsieur Pont- 
mercy, that at the very moment when you came in I was 
saying, ‘ It is all over.’ There is her little dress. ‘ I am a 
wretched man, I shall not see Cosette again,’ I was saying 
at the very moment when you were'' coming up the stairs. 
But I counted without the Bon Dieu. Ah ! blessed be Goo ! 

I see her again. Do you know, Cosette, that your husband 
is very handsome ? Monsieur Pontmercy, let me call her 
Cosette, it will not be for long.” 

And Cosette replied : “ How unkind to have left us like 

that ! where have you been to ? why were you away so 
long ? I sent Nicolette, and the answer always was, ‘ He 
has not returned.* Oh, naughty papa, he has been ill, and 
we did not know it. Here, Marius, feel how cold his hand is ! 

“ So you are here ! so you forgive me, Monsieur Pont- 
mercy ? ” Jean Valjean repeated. 

At this remark, all that was swelling in Marius’s heart 
found a vent, and he burst forth, — 

“ Do you hear, Cosette ? he asks my pardon. And do you 
know what he did for me, Cosette ? He saved my life, he 
did more, he gave you to me, and after saving me, and after 
giving you to me, Cosette, wnat did he do for himself ? He 
sacrificed himself. And to m&lt;?x who am so ungrateful, so for- 
getful, and so guilty, he says,^‘ Thank you ! ’ Cosette, my 
whole life spent at this man’s feet would be too little. That 
barricade, that sewer, that furnace, that pit, he went through 
them all for me and for you, Cosette ! This man possesses 
every courage, every virtue, every heroism, and every holiness, ^ 
and he is an angel, Cosette.” 

“ Stop, stop ! ” Jean Valjean said in a whisper, “ why tdlk 
in that way ? ” 

“ But why did you not tell me of it ? exclaimed Marius, 
with a passion in which was veneration. ‘‘ You save people’s 
lives, and conceal the fact from them ! You do more ; under 
the pretext of unmasking yourself, you calumniate yourself.” 



LES MISERABLES 


523 


“ I told the truth,” Jean Valjean replied. 

“No,” Marius retorted, “the truth ia the whole truth, 
and you did not tell that. You were Monsieur Madeleine, 
why not tell me so ? You saved Javert, why not tell mo so ? 
I owed you- life, why not tell me so ? ” 

“ Beoause I thought like you, and found that you were 
right. It -was necessary tliat I should leave you. Had you 
known of the sewer, you would have compelled m(3 to remain 
with you, s^jid hence I held my tongue.” 

Marius broke gut, “ Do you fancy that you arc going to 
remain here ? We Aean to take you back with us. Oh ! 
good heaven ! when I tMiik that I only learnt all this by ac- 
cident ! You shall not spend another day in this frightful 
house, so do not fancy you will be here to-morrow.” 

“ To-morrow,” said Jean Valjean, “ I shall be no longer 
here, but I shall not be at your house.” 

“ What do you mean ? ” Marius asked. “ Oh ! no, we 
shall not let you travel any more ; you shall not leave us 
again, for you belong to us, and wo will not let you go.” 

“ This time it ia for good,” Cosette added, “ we have a 
carriage below, and I mean to carry you off ; if necessary, I 
shall employ force.” 

And, laughing, she feigned to raise the old man in her arms. 

“ Your room is still all ready in our house,” she went on. 
“ If you only knew how pretty the garden is just at present. 
You shall eat my strawberries, for it is I who water them. 
And no more Madame, and no more Monsieur Jean, for we 
live in a Republic, do we not, Marius ? You will come with 
us’; how pleased graiidfathet will be ! You will have your 
» bed in the garden, you wm cultivate it, and we will see 
whether your strawberries are as fine as mine. And, then, I 
will do all you wish, and you will obey me.” 

Jean Valjean listened without hearing ; he heard the music 
of her voice rather than the meaning of her words, and one 
of those heavy tears, w^hich are the black pearls of the soul, 
riowly collected in his eye. He murmured, — 

“The proof that God is good is that she is here. It ia 
true it would be charming to live together. I should walk 
about with Cosette. We should each cultivate a little bed, 
she would give me her strawberries to^ eat, and I^ would let 
her pick my rosea. It would be delicious, but 



524 


LES MISERABLES 


He broke off, and said gently, “ It is a pity.’* 

Cosette took both the old man’s hands in hers. 

“ Good Heaven 1 ” she said, “ your hands have grown 
colder. Can you be ill ? are you sulToring ? ” 

“I — ^no,” Jean Vuljean replied, “I am quite well. It is 
only — ” He stopped. * 

“ Only what ? ” 

“ I am going to die directly.” 

Marius and Cosette shuddered. 

“ Die ! ” Marius exclaimed. 

“ Yes, but that is nothing,” said J&amp;n Valjean. 

He breathed, smiled, and added,^ 

“ Cosette, you were talking to me, go on, speak again, that 
I may hear your voice.” 

Marius, who was petrified, looked at the old man, and 
Cosette uttered a piercing shriek. 

“ Father, father, you will live ! I insist on your living.” 
Jean Valjean raised his head to her, with adoration. 

“ Oh yes, forbid me dying. Who knows ? Perhaps, I 
shall obey. I was on the ro^ to death when you arrived, 
but that stopped me. I fancied I was recovering.” 

“ You are full of strength and life,” Marius exclaimed, 
can you suppose that a man dies like that ? You have 
known grief, but you shall know no more. It is I who ask 
pardon of you, and on my knees ! We will take you with us, 
and shall have henceforth but one thought, your happiness ! ” 
Jean Valjean continued to smile. 

“ Even if you were to take me home with you, Monsieur 
Pontmercy, would that prevec^. me being what I am ? Ko. 
God has thought the same as )ou and I, and He does not* 
alter His opinion. It is better for me to be gone. Come, 
be reasonable, nothing is possible now, and I fully feel that 
all is over. How kind your husband is, Cosette ! You are 
much better with him than with me ! ” 

There was a noise at the door ; it was the physician come 
to pay his visit. ' 

Marius went up to the physician, and addressed but one 
word to him, “ Sir ? ” — but in the manner of pronoimcing it 
there was a whole question. The physician answered the 
question by an expressive glance. 

There was a silence, and every chest was oppressed. Jean 



LES MISERABLES 


525 

Valjean turned to Cosette, and began contemplating, as if bo 
wislied to tiike the glance with him into eternity. The refleo- 
tion of her sweet countenance illumined his pale face, for the 
sepulchre may have its brilliancy. The physician felt hivS pulse. 

“ Ah, it jvTO you that he wanted,** he said, looking at Ma- 
rius and Cosette. 

And bending down to Marius's ear, he whispered, — Too 
late.'* 

Joan Valjean, almost without ceasing to regard Cosette, 
loolvcd at Mariu.% and the physician with serenity, and tlio 
soarcoly artjoulated wi ds could be licard pass bis lips : 

It is notliing to dj^ but it is friglitful not to live.*^ 

All at once he rose — such return of strength is at times a 
se(piel of the death-agony. He walked with a linn step to the 
wall, thrust aside Marius and the doctor, who wished to help 
him, detached from the wall a small copper crucifix hanging 
on it, returned to his scat with all the vigour of full health, 
and said, as he laid the crucifix on the table, — ■ 

“ There is the great Martyr.'* 

Then his chest sank in, his head vacillated, as if the in- 
toxication of the tomb were seizing on him. Cosette sup- 
ported his shoulders and sobbed, and iri^d to speak to him, 
but was unable to do so. Jean Valjean, alter this partial 
syncope, rallied, shook his forehead as if to make the darkness 
fall ofi it, and became again almost quite livid. He caught 
hold of Cosette*8 sleeve and kissed it. 

“ He is recovering, doctor," Marius cried, 

‘‘ You are both good,'* said Jean Valjean. It causes me 
sorrow, Monsieur Pontmerej^hat you have refused to touch 
that money, but it is really your wife's. I will explain to 
you, my children, and that is why I am so glad to see you. 
Black jet comes from England, and white jet from Norway. 
I invented the substitution of rolled-up snaps for welded 
snaps in bracelets ; they are prettier, better, and not so dear. 
You can understand what money can be earned by it ; so Co- 
sette's fortune is really hers." 

The porter's wife had come up, and was peeping through the 
open door ; the physician sent her off, but could not pre- 
vent the zealous old woman shouting to the dying man before 
she went. 

“ Will you have a priest ! 



526 


LES MISERABLES 


“ I have one/* Jean Valjean answered. 

And he seemed to point with his finger to a spot over his 
head, where he might have been fancied to see some one ; it 
is probable, in truth, that the Bishop was present at this 
death-scene. Cosette gently placed a pillow *^fc&lt;»hind Jean 
Val jean’s loins, and he continued, — 

“ Monsieur Pontmercy, have no fears, I conjure you. The 
six hundred thousand francs are really Cosette’s ! We had 
succeeded in making those beads famously, and wo competed 
with what is called Berlin jeivelry.” , 

Cosette and Marius stood before hiiv^hand in h^nd, dumb 
through agony, not Icnowing what toF^isay to death^ despairing 
and trembling. With each moment Jean Valjean declined 
nearer to the dark horizon. His breathing had become inter- 
mittent, and a slight rattle impeded it. The light of the un- 
known world was already visible in his eyeballs. His face 
grew livid, and at the same time smiling. He made Cosette a 
sign to approach, and then Marius ; it was evidently the last 
minute of the last hour, and he began speaking to them in 
so faint a voice that it seemed to come from a distance, and it 
was as if there were a wall between them and him. 

“ Come hither, both of you, I love you dearly. You too 
love me, my Cosette ; I felt certain that you always had a 
fondness for the poor old man. How kind it was of you to 
place that pillow under my loins ! You will weep for me a 
little, will you not ? But not too much, for I do not wish you 
to feel real sorrow. You must have a carriage, now and then a 
box at the opera, handsome, ball-dresses, my Cosette, and 
give good dinners to your friend^ and be very happy. I was 
writing just now to Cosette. Sh^will find my letter. To her 
I leave the two candlesticks on the mantel-piece. They are 
silver, but to me they are made of gold, of diamonds ; they 
change the candles placed in them into consecrated tapers. 1 
know not whether the man who gave them to me is satisfied 
with me above, but I have done what I could. My children, 
you will not forget tliat I am a poor man, you will have me 
buried in some corner with a stone to mark the spot. No 
name on the stone. If Cosette comes to see it now and then, it 
will cause me pleasure. And you, too, Monsieur Pontmercy. 
I must confess to you that 1 did not always like you, and I ask 
your forgiveness. Now, she and you are only one for me. I 



LES MISERABLES 


527 


|K grateful to you, for I feel that you render Cosette 
If you only knew. Monsieur Pontmcrcy, her pretty 
|pp|!i|heeks were my joy, and when I saw her at all pale, 1 was 
wpi^ble. There is in the chest of drawers a five hundred 
m^^ote, I have not touched it, it is for the poor, Cosette. 
P^'^you see^i^ur little dress there on tlie bed? do you 
p^lfnize'it $ And yet it was only ten years ago ! How time 
! Wc have been very happy, and it is all over. Co&gt; 
do you remember Montfermeil ? You were in tlie wood 
iitidt-very fri4jji\iied ; do you remember when I took the 
lIpcSket- handle ? It was the first time I toucliod your pretty 
hand. It was so\^. Ah, you had red hands in those 
Miss, bift now theylrc very white. And the large doll ? 
!pb you remeihber ? You christened it Catherine, and were 
that you did not take it with you to the convent. How 
times you have made me laugh, my sweet angel ! You 
W so merry when a little girl. You used to play. You 
i^onld put cherries in your ears. All these are things of the 
Those Thenardiers were very wicked, but we must 
v'e them. Cosette the moment has arrived to tell you 
mother’s name. It was Fantine. Remember this name 
ntine. Fall on your knees every time that you pronounce 
3he suffered terribly. She loved you^early. She knew 
uch misery as you have known happiness. Such are the 
ibutions of Cod. He is above. I am going away, my 
ren, Love each other dearly and always. Ah, my Cos- 
it is not my fault that I did not see you every day, for it 
B my heart. I went as far as the corner of the street, 
must have produced a funny effect on the people who 
me pass, for I was like a madman, and even went out 
out my hat. My childr^, I can no longer see very 
ly. I had several things to say to you, but no matter, 
k of me a little. I know not what is the matter with me, 
[ see light. Come hither. I die happy. Let me lay my 
^ on your beloved heads.” 

sette and Marius fell on their knees, heart-broken and 
ed with sobs, each under one of Jean Val jean’s hands, 
e august hands did not move again. He had fallen 
, and the light from the two candles illumined him; 
rhite face looked up to heaven, and he let Cosette and 
us cover his hands with kisses, — for he was dead. The 



628 


LES MISERABLES 


night was starless and intensely dark ; doubtless some immense 
angel was standing in the gloom, with outstretched wings, 
waiting for the soul. 

There is at the cemetery of P6rc Lachaise, in the vicinity 
of the poor side, far from the elegant quarter of this city of 
sepulchres, in a deserted corner near an old "all, under a 
yew, up which bind-weed climbs, and amid couch-grass and 
moss, — a tombstone. This stone is no more exempt than the 
others from the results of time, from mildew, Jrchen, and ihe 
deposits of birds. Water turns it green, and th'^ atmosphere 
blackens it. It is not in the vicinity of any path, and people 
do not care to visit that part, becausy .^he grass is tall and they 
get their feet wet. When there is a little sunshine the lizards 
disport on it ; there is all around a rustling of wil'd oats, and in 
spring linnets sing on the trees. 

This tombstone is quite bare. In cutting it, no further 
care was taken than to make the stone long enough and narrow 
enough to cover a man. 

No name can be read on it. 

Many, many years ago, however, a hand wrote on it in pen- 
cil these lines, which became almost illegible through rain and 
dust, and which aje probably effaced at the present day : 

II dort. Quoiquo lo sort fut pour lui bien etrange. 

II Yirait. li mourut quand il n*eut pas sou ango; 

La choso simplemcnt d*elle-m^;rae arriva, 

Comino la niiit se fait lorsque le jour s’en va. 


THB END.