John.
Chapter 14.
“Don’t let your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. 
In my Father’s house are many mansions. If it weren’t so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, 
and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself; that where I am, there you may also be. 
You know where I go, and you know the way.” 
Thomas asked Him, “Lord, we don’t know where You are going, so how can we know the way?” 
Jesus told him, “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. 
If you had known me, you would have known my Father too. From now on you know Him and have seen Him.” 
Philip said to Him, “Lord, show us the Father, and that would be enough for us.” 
Jesus answered, “Have I been with you so long, and yet you haven’t known me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father, so how can you say, ‘Show us the Father’? 
Don’t you believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I speak to you aren’t my own, but from the Father who lives in me. He does the works. 
Believe me when I say that I am in the Father and the Father in me, or else believe me for the sake of the works themselves. 
“Most assuredly, I tell you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do, and even greater works than these, because I am going to my Father. 
I will do whatever you ask in my name, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 
If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. 
If you sincerely love me, you will keep my commandments. 
I will then ask the Father, and He will give you another Counselor, that He may be with you forever — 
the Spirit of truth, whom the world can’t receive, because it neither sees Him nor knows Him. You know Him, though, because He lives with you and will be in you. 
I won’t leave you orphans. I will come to you. 
After a little while the world won’t see me, but you will see me. Because I live, you will also live. 
In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. 
Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, sincerely loves me. Whoever sincerely loves me will be sincerely loved by my Father, and I’ll sincerely love them and reveal myself to them.” 
Judas (not Iscariot) asked Him, “Lord, how is it that You will reveal Yourself to us, and not to the world?” 
Jesus answered him, “If anyone sincerely loves me, that person will keep my words; and my Father will sincerely love that person, and we will come and make our home with that person. 
Whoever doesn’t sincerely love me doesn’t keep my words. The word which you hear isn’t mine, but the Father’s who sent me. 
“I’ve told you these things while living with you, 
but the Counselor, the Holy Spirit, who the Father will send in my name, will teach you everything, and bring to your remembrance all that I told you. 
I leave peace with you. I give you my peace. I don’t give to you as the world gives. Don’t let your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. 
You have heard me tell you, ‘I am going away and coming back to you.’ If you sincerely loved me, you would rejoice because I said, ‘I am going to the Father,’ for my Father is greater than I. 
Now I have told you before it happens, that when it does happen, you may believe. 
I won’t talk much longer with you, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no power over me, 
but the world must learn that I sincerely love the Father and that I do exactly what my Father has commanded me. “Come on. Let’s go. 
