John.
Chapter 18.
When Jesus had said these things, He went with His disciples across the Kidron ravine, where there was a garden, into which He and His disciples entered. 
Now Judas, who was betraying Him, also knew the place, because Jesus had often met there with His disciples. 
Then Judas, leading a detachment of soldiers and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with lanterns, torches, and weapons. 
Therefore Jesus, knowing everything that would happen to Him, went forward and asked them, “Who are you looking for?” 
They answered, “Jesus of Nazareth.” Jesus told them, “I AM.” Judas, who betrayed Him, also stood with them. 
Now when He told them, “I AM,” they drew back and fell to the ground. 
Then He asked them again, “Who are you looking for?” They said, “Jesus of Nazareth.” 
Jesus answered, “I told you that I AM. So, if you are looking for me, let these go their way,” 
that the saying might be fulfilled which He spoke, “I have lost none of those who You gave me.” 
Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the high priest’s servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant’s name was Malchus. 
So Jesus told Peter, “Put your sword into its sheath! Shouldn’t I drink the cup that my Father has given me?” 
Then the detachment of soldiers and their commander and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and tied Him up. 
They led Him away to Annas first, because he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. 
It was Caiaphas who advised the Jews that it was expedient that one man should die for the people. 
Simon Peter was following Jesus, and so was another disciple. Since the high priest knew that disciple, he entered with Jesus into the high priest’s court, 
but Peter was standing just outside the door. So the other disciple, who the high priest knew, went out and spoke to the woman who guarded the door, and brought Peter in. 
Then the maidservant who kept the door asked Peter, “You aren’t one of this man’s disciples, too, are you?” He said, “I am not.” 
Because it was cold, the servants and the officers were standing there warming themselves, having made a charcoal fire. Peter was also with them, standing and warming himself. 
Then the high priest asked Jesus about His disciples and His doctrine. 
Jesus answered him, “I have spoken openly to the world. I always taught in synagogues, and in the temple, where all the Jews come together. I said nothing in secret. 
Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me to tell you what I told them. They certainly know what I said.” 
When He had said these things, one of the officers who stood by hit Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, “Is that how you answer the high priest?” 
Jesus answered him, “If I have spoken evil, testify about the evil, but if I have spoken honestly, why do you hit me?” 
Then Annas sent Him, still bound, to Caiaphas, the high priest. 
Now Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. Therefore they asked him, “You aren’t one of His disciples, too, are you?” He denied it, saying, “I am not!” 
One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter cut off, said, “Didn’t I see you in the garden with Him?” 
Peter then denied it again, and immediately a rooster crowed. 
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the Praetorium. It was early morning. They themselves didn’t go into the Praetorium, so that they wouldn’t be defiled, and so that they might eat the Passover supper. 
So Pilate came out to them and asked, “What charges do you bring against this man?” 
They answered, “If this man wasn’t a criminal, we wouldn’t have handed him over to you.” 
Then Pilate told them, “You take Him and judge Him according to your Law.” Therefore the Jews said to him, “It’s illegal for us to put anyone to death.” 
This happened so that the words would be fulfilled which Jesus had spoken indicating the kind of death he was going to die. 
Then Pilate went back into the Praetorium, summoned Jesus, and asked Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?” 
Jesus answered, “Are you speaking for yourself about this, or did others tell you this about me?” 
Pilate answered, “I’m not a Jew, am I? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered You to me. What have You done?” 
Jesus answered, “My kingdom doesn’t belong to this world. If my kingdom did belong to this world, then my servants would be fighting to keep me from being delivered up to the Jews; but as it is, my kingdom isn’t from here.” 
Pilate therefore asked Him, “So You are a king?” Jesus answered, “You are right in saying that I am a king. For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world, to testify about the truth. Everyone who belongs to the truth listens to my voice.” 
“What is truth?” Pilate asked. After asking this, he went out again to the Jews and said, “I find no basis for a charge against Him, 
but you have a custom that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Therefore you decide: do you want me to release the King of the Jews to you?” 
Then they all shouted back, saying, “Not this man, but Barabbas!” Now Barabbas was a robber. 
