John.
Chapter 10.
“Most assuredly, I tell you, whoever doesn’t enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in some other way, is a thief and a robber. 
The one who enters by the gate is the sheep’s shepherd. 
The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. 
When he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice. 
There is no way that they will follow a stranger, but will run away from the stranger, because they don’t know the voice of strangers.” 
Jesus used this illustration, but the Pharisees didn’t understand what He was telling them. 
Then Jesus told them again, “Most assuredly, I tell you, I am the sheep’s door. 
All who ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn’t listen to them. 
I am the door. Anyone who enters by me will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. 
The thief comes only to steal, and kill, and destroy. I came that they might have life, and that they might have it in all its fullness. 
I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down His life for the sheep. 
The hired hand, who isn’t the shepherd and doesn’t own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and runs away. So, the wolf snatches them and scatters them. 
The hired hand is concerned about the wages, and not the sheep, so the hired hand runs away. 
I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me, 
just as the Father knows me and I know the Father. I lay down my life for the sheep. 
I have other sheep that don’t belong to this fold. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So, there will be one flock, with one shepherd. 
For this reason the Father sincerely loves me, because I lay down my life, so that I may take it up again. 
No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down of my own free will. I have the authority to lay it down, and I have the authority to take it up again. I received this commandment from my Father.” 
The Jews were divided again, because of these words. 
Many of them were saying, “He has a demon and is insane. Why do you listen to Him?” 
Others were saying, “These aren’t the sayings of a demon-possessed person. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?” 
At that time the Feast of Dedication took place in Jerusalem. It was winter, 
and Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon’s porch. 
Then the Jews gathered around Him, and asked Him, “How long will You keep us in suspense? If You are the Christ, tell us plainly.” 
Jesus answered, “I told you, but you don’t believe. The works that I do in my Father’s name testify about me, 
but you don’t believe, because you aren’t of my sheep. 
My sheep listen to my voice. I know them, and they follow me. 
I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. No one is able to snatch them out of my hand. 
My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all; and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father’s hand. 
I and my Father are one.” 
Therefore the Jews took up stones again to stone Him. 
Jesus answered, “I showed you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you stoning me?” 
The Jews answered Him, “We aren’t stoning you for a good work, but for blasphemy, because You, being a man, claim to be God.” 
Jesus answered, “Isn’t it written in your Law, ‘I said, “You are gods”’? 
If he, who God’s word came to, called them gods, (and the Scripture can’t be broken), 
do you say of Him who the Father set apart and sent into the world, ‘You are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am God’s Son’? 
If I don’t do my Father’s works, then don’t believe me. 
But if I do them, even if you don’t believe me, believe the works, so that you may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father.” 
Therefore they were trying again to seize Him, and He escaped from their grasp. 
Jesus went away again across the Jordan to the place where John was first baptizing, and He was staying there. 
Many came to Him and were saying, “John performed no miraculous sign, but everything that John said about this man was true.” 
Many believed in Jesus there. 
