John.
Chapter 11.
Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. 
It was the Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick. 
These sisters therefore sent to Him, saying, “Lord, one You love is sick!” 
When Jesus heard this, He said, “This sickness won’t end in death, but for God’s glory, so that God’s Son may be glorified by it.” 
Now Jesus sincerely loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. 
Yet, when He heard that Lazarus was sick, Jesus stayed where He was for two more days. 
After this, He said to the disciples, “Let’s go back to Judea.” 
The disciples said to Him, “Rabbi, the Jews were just recently trying to stone You! Are You really going back there?” 
Jesus answered, “Aren’t there twelve hours of daylight? Anyone who walks by day doesn’t stumble, because he sees the light of this world. 
But anyone who walks by night stumbles, because the light isn’t in him.” 
After He had said this, He told them, “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I am going there to wake him up.” 
The disciples therefore said to Him, “Lord, if he is sleeping, he will recover.” 
Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that He was talking about literal sleep. 
So Jesus told them plainly, “Lazarus is dead, 
and I am glad for your sakes that I wasn’t there, so that you may believe — but let’s go to him.” 
Therefore Thomas, who is called the Twin, said to his fellow disciples, “Let’s go, too, that we may die with Him.” 
When Jesus arrived, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. 
Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia away, 
and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother. 
When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went out to meet him, but Mary stayed home. 
Then Martha said to Jesus, “Lord, if You had been here, my brother wouldn’t have died. 
Even now I know that God will give you whatever You ask of Him.” 
Jesus told her, “Your brother will rise again.” 
Martha replied, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day.” 
Jesus told her, “I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me will live even if they die, 
and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?” 
“Yes, Lord,” she answered, “I have believed that You are the Christ, God’s Son, who was to come into the world.” 
When she had said this, she went back and called Mary, her sister, saying secretly, “The Teacher is here, and is asking for you.” 
When she heard this, she arose quickly, and went to Him. 
Jesus had not yet entered the village, but was still at the place where Martha met Him. 
The Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary get up quickly and go out. They followed her, saying, “She is going to the tomb to weep there.” 
When Mary came to where Jesus was, she saw Him, and fell at His feet, saying to Him, “Lord, if You had been here, my brother wouldn’t have died.” 
When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her weeping, He groaned in the spirit and was troubled. 
He asked, “Where have you laid him?” They replied, “Lord, come and see.” 
Jesus wept. 
So the Jews were saying, “See how He loved him!” 
But some of them said, “Couldn’t this man, who opened the eyes of the blind man, have kept this man from dying?” 
Then Jesus, again groaning in Himself, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a boulder was placed against the entrance. 
Jesus said, “Take away the boulder.” Martha, the dead man’s sister, said to Him, “Lord, by this time there is a stench, because he has been dead four days.” 
Jesus told her, “Didn’t I tell you that if you would believe you would see God’s glory?” 
Then they took the boulder away from the place where the dead man was lying. Jesus lifted up His eyes and said, “Father, I thank You that You have heard me. 
I know that You always hear me, but because of the people who are standing here I said this, that they may believe that You sent me.” 
Now when He had said these things, He called loudly, “Lazarus, come out!” 
He who had died came out, bound hand and foot with wrappings, and his face was wrapped around with a cloth. Jesus told them, “Unbind him, and let him go.” 
Then many of the Jews who had come to Mary, and had seen the things Jesus did, believed in Him. 
But some of them went away to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus did. 
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council and said, “What are we doing? For this Man performs many signs. 
If we let Him go on like this, everyone will believe in Him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation.” 
Then a certain one of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, told them, “You don’t know anything, 
nor do you take into account that it’s better for you that one man should die for the people, than for the whole nation to perish.” 
He didn’t say this on his own initiative; but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation, 
and not for the nation only, but that Jesus might also gather together into one God’s children who are scattered abroad. 
So from that day on, they planned together to kill Jesus. 
Therefore Jesus stopped walking publicly among the Jews, but went away from there to the region near the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there He stayed with the disciples. 
Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went from the country up to Jerusalem before the Passover, to purify themselves. 
Then they were looking for Jesus, and spoke among themselves as they stood in the temple, “What do you think? Isn’t He coming to the feast at all?” 
Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a command, that anyone who knew where Jesus was should report it, that they might arrest Him. 
