John.
Chapter 13.
Before the Feast of the Passover, Jesus knew that His time had come that He should depart out of this world to the Father. Having sincerely loved His own who were in the world, He sincerely loved them to the end. 
Supper was finished, and the Devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray Jesus. 
Jesus, knowing that the Father had given everything into His hands, and that He had come from God and was going to God, 
got up from supper, laid aside His outer garment, and wrapped a towel around His waist. 
Then He poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples’ feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around Him. 
Then He came to Simon Peter, and Peter asked Him, “Lord, are You washing my feet?” 
Jesus answered, “You don’t understand what I am doing now, but you will know after this.” 
Peter told Him, “You will never wash my feet!” Jesus answered, “If I don’t wash you, you have no part with me.” 
Simon Peter said to Him, “Lord, not just my feet, but also my hands and my head!” 
Jesus said to him, “Someone who has bathed only needs to wash their feet, but is completely clean; and most of you are clean, but not all of you.” 
For He knew who would betray Him, therefore He said, “You aren’t all clean.” 
When He had washed their feet, He put on His outer garment and sat down again. He asked them, “Do you know what I have done to you? 
You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right in saying so, for so I am. 
If I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet. 
I have given you an example, that you should also do as I have done to you. 
Most assuredly, I tell you, a servant isn’t greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him. 
If you know these things, you are blessed if you do them. 
I’m not talking about all of you. I know who I have chosen; but this is to fulfill the Scripture, ‘He who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me.’ 
Now I tell you before it happens, that when it does happen, you may believe that I AM. 
Most assuredly, I tell you, whoever receives anyone I send receives me; and he who receives me receives Him who sent me.” 
When Jesus had said these things, He was troubled in spirit, and testified and said, “Most assuredly, I tell you, one of you will betray me.” 
The disciples began looking at one another, perplexed about which one of them He was talking about. 
One of Jesus’ disciples, who Jesus sincerely loved, was leaning against His breast. 
Simon Peter therefore nodded to him to ask who He spoke about. 
Then, leaning back on Jesus’ breast, he asked Him, “Lord, who is it?” 
Jesus answered, “It is he who I will give a morsel to when I have dipped it.” Having dipped the morsel, He gave it to Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son. 
After the morsel, Satan entered into him. Jesus therefore told him, “What you do, do quickly.” 
None of those reclining at the table knew why He had said this to him. 
Some were supposing, because Judas had the money box, that Jesus was saying to him, “Buy the things we need for the feast”; or else, that he should give something to the poor. 
Having received the morsel, he went out immediately. It was night. 
When he had gone out, Jesus said, “Now the Son of Man is glorified, and God is glorified in Him. 
If God is glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself, and will glorify Him immediately. 
Little children, I am with you a little while longer. You will look for me, and as I told the Jews, I now tell you, also, ‘Where I am going, you can’t come.’ 
I give to you a new commandment, that you sincerely love one another, even as I have sincerely loved you, so you should also sincerely love one another. 
By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you have sincere love for one another.” 
Simon Peter asked Him, “Lord, where are You going?” Jesus answered, “Where I go, you aren’t able to follow me now, but you will follow later.” 
Peter asked Him, “Lord, why can’t I follow You right now? I will lay down my life for You.” 
Jesus answered, “Will you lay down your life for my sake? Most assuredly, I tell you, the rooster won’t crow until you have denied me three times. 
