John.
Chapter 7.
After these things, Jesus walked in Galilee, for He didn’t want to walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill Him. 
Now the Jews’ Feast of Tabernacles was near. 
Therefore His brothers told Him, “Leave here and go to Judea, so that Your disciples will see the works that You are doing, too. 
Nobody does anything in secret while he seeks to be known openly. If You do these things, show Yourself to the world.” 
For even His brothers didn’t believe in Him. 
Then Jesus told them, “My time hasn’t yet come, but your time is always right. 
The world can’t hate you, but it hates me because I testify that its works are evil. 
Go up to this feast yourselves. I’m not going up to this feast, yet, for my time hasn’t yet fully come.” 
Having said these things to them, He stayed in Galilee. 
When His brothers had gone up to the feast, however, Jesus also went up, not publicly, but in secret. 
The Jews were looking for Him at the feast, and saying, “Where is He?” 
There was much complaining among the people about Him. Some said, “He is good,” but others said, “No, He deceives the people.” 
No one spoke openly of Him for fear of the Jews. 
About the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and began to teach. 
The Jews marveled, saying, “How does this man know letters, having never been educated?” 
Jesus answered, “My teaching isn’t mine, but His who sent me. 
Anyone who wants to do His will shall know if the teaching is from God or if I speak on my own. 
The one who speaks on his own seeks his own glory; but He who seeks the glory of the One who sent Him is true, and no unrighteousness is in Him. 
Didn’t Moses give you the Law, yet none of you keeps the Law? Why are you trying to kill me?” 
The people answered, “You have a demon. Who is trying to kill You?” 
Jesus answered, “I did one work, and you all marvel. 
Moses gave you circumcision (not that it’s from Moses, but from the forefathers), and you circumcise a boy on the Sabbath. 
If a boy gets circumcised on the Sabbath, so that the Law of Moses should not be broken, are you angry with me because I made a man completely well on the Sabbath? 
Don’t judge by appearance, but judge with righteous judgment.” 
Some of the people of Jerusalem said, “Isn’t this the man they are trying to kill? 
Look! He is speaking boldly, and they say nothing to Him. The rulers haven’t really concluded that this is the Christ, have they? 
Still, we know where this man is from, but when the Christ comes, no one will know where He is from.” 
Then Jesus cried out, as He taught in the temple, “You know me, and you know where I’m from. I haven’t come of my own accord, but He who sent me is true, who you don’t know. 
I know Him, because I am from Him, and He sent me.” 
Because of this, they were seeking to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him, because His time had not yet come. 
Many of the people believed in Him, saying, “When the Christ comes, will He do more signs than this man has done?” 
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Jesus, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to seize Him. 
Then Jesus told them, “I will be with you a little while longer, and then I am going to Him who sent me. 
You will look for me, and not find me, and where I am, you can’t come.” 
Then the Jews said among themselves, “Where does He intend to go that we won’t be able to find Him? He doesn’t intend to go to the dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks, does He? 
What does He mean by saying, ‘You will look for me, and not find me, and where I am, you can’t come’?” 
On the last and greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood and declared loudly, “If anyone is thirsty, let that person come to me and drink. 
Rivers of living water will flow from within whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said.” 
He said this about the Spirit, who those believing in Him would receive. The Holy Spirit wasn’t yet given, because Jesus wasn’t yet glorified. 
When they heard these words, many in the crowd were saying, “This is really the prophet.” 
Others were saying, “This is the Christ,” but some were saying, “Surely the Christ isn’t going to come from Galilee, is He? 
Hasn’t the Scripture said that the Christ comes from the seed of David and from the town of Bethlehem, where David was?” 
So there was a division among the crowd because of Jesus. 
Some of them wanted to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him. 
When the officers went back to the chief priests and Pharisees, they asked them, “Why didn’t you bring Him in?” 
The officers answered, “No man ever spoke like this man!” 
Then the Pharisees answered, “You haven’t been deceived, too, have you? 
Have any of the rulers or Pharisees believed in Him? 
But this accursed crowd doesn’t know the Law.” 
Nicodemus (who came to Jesus before, being one of them) asked them, 
“Does our Law permit us to judge a man before hearing him and finding out what he is doing?” 
They answered him, “You aren’t from Galilee, too, are you? Search and you will see that no prophet comes out of Galilee.” 
Then everyone went home, 
