John.
Chapter 2.
On the third day there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, and Jesus’ mother was there. 
Now both Jesus and His disciples were invited to the wedding. 
When they ran out of wine, Jesus’ mother told Him, “They have no wine.” 
Jesus said to her, “Woman, what does that have to do with you and me? My time has not yet come.” 
His mother told the servants, “Do whatever He tells you.” 
Nearby stood six stone water jars, the kind used by the Jews for ceremonial washing, each holding two to three metretes. 
Jesus told the servants, “Fill the jars with water,” so they filled them to the brim. 
Then He told them, “Now draw some out and take it to the master of the banquet.” They did so, 
and the master of the banquet tasted the water that had been turned into wine. He didn’t realize where it had come from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew. Then he called the bridegroom aside 
and said, “Everyone brings out the choice wine first, and then the cheaper wine after the guests have drunk freely, but you have saved the best till now!” 
Jesus did this beginning of signs in Cana of Galilee. He revealed His glory, and His disciples believed in Him. 
After this, He went down to Capernaum with His mother, His brothers, and His disciples, and they stayed there only a few days. 
The time for the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
He found in the temple those who sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the money changers doing business. 
When He had made a whip of cords, He drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and the oxen, and poured out the changers’ money and overturned the tables. 
He told those who sold doves, “Take these things away! Don’t make my Father’s house a market place!” 
Then His disciples remembered that it was written, “Zeal for Your house will consume me.” 
So the Jews answered and asked Him, “What sign do You show to us, since You do these things?” 
Jesus answered them, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.” 
Then the Jews said, “It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will You raise it up in three days?” 
But the temple He had spoken of was His body. 
After He was raised from the dead, His disciples recalled what He had said. Then they believed the Scripture and the words that Jesus had spoken. 
Now while He was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast, many people saw the miraculous signs He was doing and believed in His name. 
But Jesus didn’t commit Himself to them, because He knew all people, 
and had no need for anyone to testify about people, for He knew what was in people. 
