Genesis.
Chapter 10.
This is the story about Noah’s sons and their families. His sons were Shem, and Ham, and Jafeth, and after that big flood, they had kids too. 
A long time later, the people that were born into Jafeth’s family split up into different tribes and nations. Each tribe had their own language, and their own country. Jafeth’s sons were Gomer, and Magog, and Madayi, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshek, and Tiras. The tribes that were from Jafeth’s son Gomer and his family were the Ashkenaz mob, and the Rifath mob, and the Togarmah mob. The tribes that were from Jafeth’s son Javan and his family were the Elishah mob, and the Tarshish mob, and the Kit mob, and the Rodan mob. Javan’s people lived near the sea. 
The people that were born into Ham’s family split up into different tribes too, and each tribe had their own language, and their own country. Ham’s sons were Cush, and Egypt, and Put, and Canaan. 
The tribes that were from Ham’s son Cush and his family were the Seba mob, and the Havilah mob, and the Sabtah mob, and the Ramah mob, and the Sabteca mob. And the tribes that were from Ramah and his family were the Sheba mob, and the Dedan mob. 
One of the men that was born into Cush’s family was called Nimrod. After he grew up, he became a strong fighter. 
He was the best hunter in the world too. Whenever people talked about good hunters, they said things like this, “That man is a really good hunter. He is just like Nimrod, the best hunter in the world.” 
Nimrod controlled the country called Babylonia, and he was the boss over the cities called Babel, and Erek, and Akad. 
After that, Nimrod got the country called Assyria, and he built the towns called Nineveh, and Rehoboth-Ir, and Calah. 
Then he built a big town called Resen. It was between Nineveh and Calah. 
The tribes that were from Ham’s son Egypt and his family were the Lud mob, and the Anam mob, and the Lehab mob, and the Naftuh mob, 
and the Pathrus mob, and the Casluh mob, and the Caftor mob. (Later the Philistia nation were from the Caftor mob.) 
Ham’s youngest son was called Canaan. Canaan had 2 sons. His 1st son was called Sidon, and his other son was called Heth. 
The tribes that were from Canaan and his family were the Jebus mob, and the Amor mob, and the Girgash mob, 
and the Hiv mob, and the Arek mob, and the Sin mob, 
and the Arvad mob, and the Zemar mob, and the Hamath mob. All those tribes were from Canaan, and they went as far north as the town called Sidon, and as far south as the town called Gaza, and as far east as the towns called Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboyim, near Lasha. 
They were all the tribes and nations that were from Ham and his family. Each tribe had their own country, and their own language. 
Shem was Jafeth’s older brother. The Eber mob are from Shem’s family. 
Shem’s sons were Elam, and Asshur, and Arfaxad, and Lud, and Aram. 
The tribes that were from Shem’s son Aram and his family were the Uz mob, and the Hul mob, and the Gether mob, and the Mash mob. 
Shem’s son Arfaxad had a son called Shelah, and he had a son called Eber. 
Eber had 2 sons. The 1st son was called Peleg, and his young brother was called Joktan. That name Peleg means split up. He got that name because all the people split up into different tribes after he was born. 
The tribes that were from Eber’s son Joktan’s family were the Almodad mob, and the Shelef mob, and the Hazarmaveth mob, and the Jerah mob, 
and the Hadoram mob, and the Uzal mob, and the Diklah mob, 
and the Obal mob, and the Abimayel mob, and the Sheba mob, 
and the Ofir mob, and the Havilah mob, and the Jobab mob. 
All of those people were born into Joktan’s family. Their country was in the mountains in the east, the country you see if you go from Mesha all the way to Sefar. 
They were all the tribes and nations that were from Shem’s family. Each tribe had their own country, and their own language. 
That is the big list of all the families and tribes that were born into Noah’s family. They split up into their own nations, and they went everywhere after the big flood. 
