Genesis.
Chapter 5.
This is the story about Adam’s family. You see, when God made people, he made them to be like himself. 
And he made them men and women, and he called them human beings, and he was good to them. 
Adam lived a long time. He was 130 years old when he had his son called Seth. He was a human being, just like Adam, his father. 
After Seth was born, Adam lived for another 800 years, and he had more sons and daughters. 
He died when he was 930 years old. 
Seth lived a long time too. He was 105 years old when he had a son called Enosh. 
Then Seth lived for another 807 years, and he had more sons and daughters. 
He died when he was 912 years old. 
Enosh lived a long time too. He was 90 years old when he had a son called Kenan. 
Then Enosh lived for another 815 years, and he had more sons and daughters. 
He died when he was 905 years old. 
Kenan lived a long time too. He was 70 years old when he had a son called Mahalalel. 
Then Kenan lived for another 840 years, and he had more sons and daughters. 
He died when he was 910 years old. 
Mahalalel lived a long time too. He was 65 years old when he had a son called Jared. 
Then Mahalalel lived for another 830 years, and he had more sons and daughters. 
He died when he was 895 years old. 
Jared lived a long time too. He was 162 years old when he had a son called Enok. 
Then Jared lived for another 800 years, and he had more sons and daughters. 
He died when he was 962 years old. 
Enok lived a long time too. He was 65 years old when he had a son called Methuselah. 
Then Enok lived for another 300 years after Methuselah was born, and he had more sons and daughters. Enok was always God’s friend, and he spent a lot of time with God. One day, when he was 365 years old, he wasn’t here on the earth any more. Nobody could find him anywhere. You see, he didn’t die, but God took him straight up to heaven. 
Methuselah lived a long time too. He was 187 years old when he had a son called Lamek. 
Then Methuselah lived for another 782 years, and he had more sons and daughters. 
He died when he was 969 years old. 
Lamek lived a long time too. He was 182 years old when he had a son. 
He named his son Noah. That name means help people be happy. Lamek said, “God cursed the ground, so we have to work really hard to dig the ground, but Noah will help us be happy, even though we have to work really hard.” 
Then Lamek lived for another 595 years, and he had more sons and daughters. 
He died when he was 777 years old. 
Noah lived a long time too. After he was 500 years old, he had 3 sons. They were called Shem, and Ham, and Jafeth. 
